Once upon a time, in a far kingdom, in a distant province, there lived a man and his wife. 

They were childless.

One time, the man said: "Wife, go buy a turnip -- we'll have it for lunch."

The wife went and bought two turnips; they managed to eat their way through the one,

and the other they put in the oven to roast. A little later they hear -- something in the

oven is shouting: "Grandma, open up; it's hot in here."

The wife opened the over door and there, in the oven, lay a little girl.

"What's going on there?" asked the man.

"Oh, husband! God gave us a daughter."

And the husband and wife greatly rejoiced and they named the daughter "Turka", little

turnip.

Then Turka grew, and grew, and then was grown-up.

One time, the village girls came by and asked, "Grandma, let Turka come with us into

the forest to pick berries."

- - "I'm not letting her, you crazy kids! You'll abandon her in the forest."

- - "No, Grandma, we would never do such a thing."

The wife allowed Turka to go.

The girls got organized, went berry-picking, and got into such a thick forest that it was

almost as dark as night.

Look! -- there was a little hut standing in the forest, they went into the hut and there,

sitting on a stool was a bear.

"Be of good health, lovely girls!", said the bear. "I've long been waiting for you."

He sat them down to table, ladled them out some kasha, and then said, "Eat, my

lovelies! Any one of you who won't eat, that one I shall marry."

All the girls ate their kasha, only Turka didn't eat.

The bear let the girls go home, whileTurka stayed with him. He then dragged in a

sleigh, hooked it to the ceiling, lay down in the sleigh and started rocking himself.

Turka began to rock and to chant, "Rockabye, bye, you old guy!

-- "Not like that!" said the bear. "Say instead, "Rockabye, bye, dear friend!" 

So, like that, the bear lived with her for about a year. Turka was starting to show a baby

bump and began to wonder how she could get a chance to go home.

One time, the bear went out hunting while leaving her in the hut with the door blocked

by oak stumps.

Turka wanted to get out, sweating and straining, somehow she got out and fled home.

The man and his wife rejoiced that she had found her way home: A month passed, two

months, and a third. In the fourth month, Turka gave birth to a son, half human, half

bearish. They christened him and gave him the name Johnny-Bearcub. Johnny took to

growing not by years but by hours, such that in one hour he'd get a couple of inches

taller like someone would ordinarily grow in a year.

When he got to what would be his 15th year, he started to run around and play with

other kids and to play unacceptable jokes -- grabbing someone by the arm, the arm

came off, someone by the head and off came the head.

The local peasants came to the man to complain, telling him, "However you want,

neighbor, but that son of yours has to go! Because of him, we've almost lost all our own

children."

The man worried and twisted around in his thoughts.

"What's wrong, Grandfather? You look so distressed." asked Johnny-Bearcub; "as if

you were totally devastated."

The man sighed deeply: "Oh, grandson! You were the only support in my old age, and

then, they are ordering me to kick you out of the village."

-- "Well, what of it, Grandfather! That's not a misfortune yet; the real misfortune is that

I don't have any weapons. Go, make me an iron cudgel weighing 900 pounds."

The man went and made him a 900-pound cudgel.

Johnny took leave of his grandfather and grandmother, took his cudgel, and took off for

the unknown, wherever his eyes could see, and his nose lead.

Going along his roadway, he got to a wide river, two miles wide: on the bank was a

person swiping the river with his mouth, catching a fish with his mustache and then

cooking it on his tongue and eating it. 

--- "Be healthy, Mustached Hero!" --- "Be healthy, Johnny Bearcub! Where are

you off to?"

--- "I'm not my own guide: I go wherever my eyes are looking." --- "Take me along

with you".

--- "Let's go, brother! I'm glad for a comrade. They left as a pair and spotted a wonder.

That Hero seized a whole patch of woods, carried it to a ravine, and thus created a

kilometer of road. Johnny was amazed: --- "For a marvel, that's a marvel! Wow! you're

frightfully strong, little Forester!"

--- "Ah, brothers, what kind of strength do I have? Look, somewhere in the wide world

there's a Johnny Bearcub whose strength is truly great."

--- "Well, you know, that's me."

--- "Where the heck are you off to?"

--- "I go wherever my eyes are looking."

--- "Take me with you, too."

--- "Well, let's go: I'm glad of comrades."

The trio went off and spotted another wonder.

A Hero was sorting out oak trees: any oak that was tall, he stuck back into the ground,

any that was short he pulled out of the ground.

Johnny was amazed. --- "How's that for strength, for mighty power!"

--- "Ah, brothers, what kind of strength do I have? ---Look, somewhere in the wide world

there's a Johnny Bearcub whose strength is truly great."

--- "Well, you know, that's me."

--- "Where the heck are you off to?"

--- "I myself don't know, Oakmaster. I go wherever my eyes are looking."

--- "Take me with you, too."

--- "Well, let's go: I'm glad of comrades."

Now they were a quartet.

They went along their pathway, sometimes long, sometimes short. They got into a

thick, dark forest. In that forest stood a little hut standing on chicken legs and turning

around all the time.

Johnny spoke: --- "Little hut, little hut! Stop, with the forest to your back and us to your

front." 

The little hut turned its front towards them; the doors themselves swung open, the

windows opened. The heroes entered the little hut.

--- "Nobody home, and in the yard there were geese and ducks and turkeys.-- enough

for all.

--- "Well, brothers," said Johnny Bearcub, "it's no good for all of us to stay at home; let's

draw lots for who stays home and who goes hunting."

They drew lots and the choice fell on Mustached Hero. His chosen brothers went off to

hunt and he began to fix and prepare whatever his heart desired, washed his head, sat

down under a little window and began to straighten his curls with a comb.

Suddenly, a shimmering, body-like, green-eyed thing started to appear . The ground

became a navel, from beneath the ground a stone came up, from under the stone came

Baba-Yaga Chickenfoot, sinewy, riding on an iron bowl, waving an iron whip, and with a

dog trudging behind.

--- "Here, with Mustached Hero, will I eat and drink my fill."

--- "Welcome Baba-Yaga Chickenfoot!" He sat her down at table, served frequent

portions, she ate her fill. He served another, she gave it to the dog.

--- "So that's how you fatten me up!"

She grabbed her whip and began to whip the Mustached Hero; she beat and beat,

under the bench she beat, she cut a belt from his back, ate the table clean, and rode

away. The Mustached One came back to himself, tied a bandage on his head, sat down

and groaned. Johnny Bearcub came back with the brothers.

---"Well, so, little Mustache, what did you prepare for us for supper?

- "Ahx, brothers, I neither boiled nor roasted, I burned things so badly that I almost burnt

down the little hut."

On the next day, Forester Hero remained at home: he cooked and prepared, washed

his head, sat down under the little window and began to comb out his hair.

Suddenly, appeared a shimmering, green-eyed thing.. The ground became a navel,

from beneath the ground a stone came up, from under the stone came Baba-Yaga

Chickenfoot! -- riding on an iron bowl, waving an iron whip, and with a dog trudging

behind. 

--- "Here, with little Forester Hero, I will I eat and drink my fill."

--- "Welcome Baba-Yaga Chickenfoot!" Forester served her portions; Baba Yaga ate

her fill, he served another, she served it to the dog.

--- "So that's how you fatten me up!" She grabbed the iron whip, beat him, beat, under

the bench she beat, she cut a belt from his back, ate the last crumbs, and rode away.

Foresty regained consciousness, bandaged his head and, getting up, he groaned.

Johnny-Bearcub and brothers came back.

--- "Well, so, little Foresty, what did you prepare for us for supper?

--- "Ahx, brothers, I didn't cook anything; the oven was smoking, the firewood wet, and I

couldn't get a fire no matter how I tried."

On the third day, Oakmaster-Hero was left at home. He cooked and prepared, washed

his head, sat down under the little window and began to comb out his hair.

Suddenly, appeared a shimmering, green-eyed thing. The ground became a navel,

from beneath the ground a stone came up, from under the stone came Baba-Yaga

Chickenfoot! -- riding on an iron bowl, waving an iron whip, and with a dog trudging

behind.

--- "Here, with little Oakmaster, I will I eat and drink my fill."

--- "Welcome Baba-Yaga Chickenfoot!" Baba-Yaga sat down, he served her portions.

When she ate one, he served her another. When she she got full, he served her

another -- she threw that one to the dog.

--- "So that's how you fatten me up!"

She grabbed the iron whip, beat him, beat, under the bench she beat, she cut a belt

from his back, finished eating everything, and rode away.

The Oakmaster came to, bandaged his head, and standing up, he groaned.

Johnny returned: --- "Well, so, little Oakie, give us some supper."

--- "I got nothing cooked, brothers, and I stoked the fire so hard that I almost burned the

hut down."

On the fourth day, it was Johnny's turn: he stayed home, cooked and prepared. washed

his head, sat down under the window and began to comb his curls. 

Suddenly, appeared a shimmering, green-eyed thing.. The ground became a navel,

from beneath the ground, a stone came up, from under the stone came Baba-Yaga

Chickenfoot! -- riding on an iron bowl, waving an iron whip, and with a dog trudging

behind.

--- "Here, with little Johnny-Bearcub, I will I eat and drink my fill."

--- "Welcome Baba-Yaga Chickenfoot!" He sat her down, served her a portion. When

she finished, he served her another -- she threw that one to the dog.

--- "So that's how you fatten me up!" She grabbed the whip and began to give him

what-for.

Johnny got angry, grabbed the whip from Baba-Yaga' and took to beating her with all

his might: he beat-beat til she was half-dead, cut three belts from her back, grabbed

and sat her down in the pantry, and locked her in.

The comrade-heroes arrived. --- "Give us some supper, Johnny!"

--- "Be so good, my friends, to sit yourselves down." They sat, and Johnny started to

serve: much was all prepared.

The Heroes ate, they marvelled among themselves and began to talk:

--- "That means there was no Baba-Yaga for him!

After supper, Johnny-Bearcub heated a bath, and they all sweat for a while.

So Mustachy, Oakie, and Foresty bathed, and all tried to keep facing Johnny.

Johnny said to them: "What's going on, brothers, that you're all hiding your backs from

me?" There was nothing the Heroes could do, they admitted how Baba-Yaga had

arrived and cut the belts from their backs.

--- "So that's how you burned everything up!" said Johnny, and running to the pantry,

took the belts from Baba-Yaga, placed them on each one's back and immediately

everything healed.

After that, Johnny-Bearcub grabbed Baba-Yaga, tied a cord to her foot and hung her up

on the gates.

--- "Now, brothers, load your rifles and let's have a little target practice. Whoever breaks

the cord with a bullet, he'll be the real marksman!

Mustachy shot first - missed, Foresty shot second and came close, Okie was third and

snagged it just a little, then Johnny shot and broke the cord. 

Baba-Yaga fell to the ground, flew off to the stone, lifted the stone, and went down

under. The Heroes took out after her; one tried, another tried, they couldn't lift the

stone, but Johnny came running with a swift kick -- the stone moved aside and a burrow

opened up.

--- "Who, brothers, is going to go in there?" Nobody wanted to.

--- "Well," said Johnny-Bearcub, " it looks like it's going to be my job to go in!"

He brought a stump, set it beside the chasm. On the stump he tied a bell and tied one

end of the cord to it, but he grabbed the other end.

--- "Now, let me down, but when I strike the bell, pull me back up."

The Heroes began to lower him into the burrow. Johnny saw he was at the end of the

cord but that he hadn't yet gotten to the bottom; from his pocket, he pulled out the three

big belts he had cut from the back of Baba-Yaga, tied them to the end of the cord, and

continued to descend in that light.

He saw a well-trodden path and followed it, on and on; -- there was a palacel In the

palace sat three girls, three beauties, and they said to him,

--- "Ahx, good youth, why have you come here? Don't you know that our mom, Baba- Yaga, will eat you up?"

--- "So where is she?"

--- "She's sleeping just now, and on her head lies a saber-sword: don't touch the sword,

and if it is touched, immediately it will wake up and stab you.

And then, it would be better to take two golden apples on a silver platter, wake up Yaga- Baba very quietly, serve her the two apples and ask her tenderly to taste; she will lift

her head, open wide her maw and right away start to eat the apple. You snatch the

saber-sword and cut off her head with one blow and don't cut any other; but in case you

don't cut through, if you strike a second blow, she will immediately come to life and give

you an evil death."

Johnny did just that and cut off Baba-Yaga's head, grabbed the beautiful girls and led

them back to the burrow. He tied the elder sister to the cord, struck the bell and

hollered, "Here's a wife for you,Mustachy!" The heroes pulled her up and let the cord

back down. Johnny tied on the other sister and hollered, "Here's a wife for you,

Foresty!" And they pulled that one up. 

He tied on the smallest sister and hollered, "And this one is my wife!"

Oakie got angry and as soon as they were pulling up Johnny-Bearcub, he took a sabre

and cut the cord in two.

Johnny fell and hurt himself badly. The good youngster groaned and didn't know what

to do for himself.

A first day, a second, and a third day, he sat not eating, not drinking, wasting away from

hunger, and thinking.

-- "Let me go and look in Baba-Yaga's larder and see whether there is something to eat

there." He went to the larder, ate and drank and happened upon a tunnel, he went in,

on and on, and got himself back into daylight.

He went across a cleared field and saw - a pretty girl herding cattle. As he got closer to

her, he recognized his bride.

--- "What are you doing, clever one?"

--- "I'm herding cattle. My sisters got married to the Heroes, but I didn't want to marry

Oakie, so he put me to taking care of the cattle."

In the evening, the pretty girl took the cattle home, and Johnny Bear-Cub followed her.

He entered the hut; Mustachy, Foresty and Oakie, the Heroes, sat at table and were

making merry. Johnny said to them,

-- "Give me one little glass at least."

They served him a glass of new wine; he drank it down and asked for another. They

gave him another; he drank and asked for a third. His hero's heart flamed up anger

inside him; he grabbed a war sabre, killed all three Heroes and took their bodies to an

open field for the wild beasts to gnaw on.

After that, he took his intended bride, returned home to the man and his wife and

organized a happy wedding. Much was drunk, much was eaten.

And I was at the wedding, drank honey-wine. It flowed through my mustache and into a

mouth that was dry. They gave me small beer. My story ends here. 
