May I amuse you a fairy tale? It's a wonderful tale. There are marvelous marvels, 
wondrous wonders, and the laborer Shabarsha, Shabarsha who is a rogue among rogues: 
oh, well, in for a penny, in for a pound! So Shabarsha set off to work as a laborer, 
and times were bad. There was no grain at all, and the vegetables didn't grow. 

But one owner thought a deep thought. 
How could he chase away his misery, what could he live on, where could he get some money? 

"Don't worry about it," said Shabarsha to him. "There will come a day and there will be
both grain and money!" And Shabarsha set off for the millpond. "At any rate I can catch
some fish. I'll sell them and I'll have some money. But I've no line and no hook. 
Wait a minute and I'll make one." He asked the miller for a handful of hemp, 
sat down on the shore, and started weaving his tackle.

He wove and wove and then a boy in a black shirt and red hat jumped out of the water. 
"Grandfather! What are you doing here?" he asked.
"I'm weaving a line."
"Why?"
"I intend to cleanse this pond of all you devils by pulling you out of the water."
"Oh, no! Wait a little. I'll go and tell grandfather." The imp dove deep down and Shabarsha
went back to work. 
"Wait a minute," he thought, "I'll play a trick on you, you cursed ones. You'll bring me 
some gold and silver." And shabarsha began digging a pit and when he had dug it, he placed his
with a cutout hold over it.
"Shabarsha, oh Shabarsha! Grandfather says that you and I should trade. What will you take
not to drag us out of the water?"
"Fill that had full of gold and silver."

The imp dove back into the water. he came back and said, "Grandfather says that you and I should 
first wrestle."
"What do you mean, milksop; why should I wrestle the likes of you?
You couldn't even deal with my middle brother, Misha?"
"And where is your Misha?"
"Look over there. He's resting in that ravine under a bush."
"How can I call him out?"
"Go up to him and hit him in the side. Then he'll get up of his own accord."

The imp went into the ravine, found the bear, and whacked him in the side with his club. 
Misha rose up on his hind legs and grabbed the imp so that all his bones cracked.

He forced himself out of the bear's claws and ran to the old man in the water.

"Well, grandfather," he said in his fright, "Shabarsha has a younger brother, Misha, and he was
about to wrestle with me when he cracked all my bones. What would it have been like if I had 
started to wrestle with Shabarsha?"
"Hmm, go and try to have a foot race with Shabarsha; we'll see who can win that."
So the boy in the red hat once more came up to Shabarsha. 
He repeated his grandfather's words and Shabarsha replied, "Why should I race with the likes of you?
My little brother, Bunny, will leave you far behind."
"And where is your little brother Bunny?"
"He's over there, lying in the grass. he wanted a rest. Go up closer to him and touch him on the ear. 
Then he'll race with you." 

The imp ran up to Bunny, touched him on the ear, and the hare jumped up with the imp right behind him.

"Wait, wait for me, Bunny. Let me come up even with you. Oh, you've got away!"

"Well, grandfather," he said to the water spirit, "I tored after him running. But how?
He wouldn't let me catch up to him and he wasn't even Shabarsha. He was just his youngest brother."
"Hmmm," the old man muttered, screwing up his eyebrows. 'Go to Shabarsha and tell him to see who can 
whistle the loudest."
"Shabarsha, Shabarsha! Grandfather orders me to see which of us can whistle loudest."

"You whistle first." The imp whistled so loudly that Shabarsha could hardly stand on his own two feet
and the leaves started falling off the trees. "You whistle well," said Shabarsha, "but that's not how 
I do it." When I whistle, you won't stand on your feet and your ears won't be able to stand it.
Lie down on your face and cover your eears with your fingers." 

The imp lay face down on the ground and stuck his fingers in his ears. 

Shabarsha took his club and with all his might he whacked him on the neck and whistled. 
He whistled on and on.

"Oh, grandfather, grandfather! You wound't believe how Shabarsha whistles.
Sparks fell from my eyes and I could hardly get up from the ground, and all the bones in my neck
and spin were broken."

"Oho! You see, you're not so strong, imp. Go and take my iron club that's in the rushes and try this:
see who can throw it higher into the air."

The imp took the club, put it on his shoulder, and set off for Shabarsha.
"Well, Shabarsha, grandfather has ordered us to try one last time. Who can throw this club higher into the air?"
"You throw it first and I'll watch."
The devil threw the club and it flew higher and higher until it was just a black dot in the sky.
They waited impatiently for it to come back to earth. 
Then Shabarsha took the club - it was heavy! He stood it on the toes of one foot, 
leaned on ti with his palm, and began gazing at the sky. 

"Why don't you throw it? What are you waiting for?" asked the imp.

"I am waiting for the dark cloud to approach because my uncle the blacksmith sits up there and
he can be extremely useful for working iron."

"Oh no, Shabarsha! Do not throw the club up on the cloud and anger grandfather!"
The imp snatched the baton and dove back for his grandfather.

Grandfather heard from his granddaughter that Shabarsha very nearly threw his club, and prepared the
money for the payoff. 

Then grandfather poured all of his money into the hat of Sharbasha but it was still empty. 
The money poured and poured and it never filled up the hat. 
Now all that remains is one last trunk. 

Since that time, the boy became a servant. 

They have called him to drink honey and beer and he refuses to go. Why, when honey is bitter and beer is dull?

What kind of parable is this?
