There once lived Kuzenka all alone in a dark forest; 

He had a hut, a thin little nag, but a cock, and five chickens. 

A little fox sceneted out the fowls that were right under her very nose in the wood 
  and determined to pay a visit to Cosmo's hut.
  
One day, Cosmo went out to hunt and no sooner had he left the hut than our fox, who was on watch at the time,
 ran up, killed one of the hens, roasted it, and ate it up.
 
 Cosmo returned home and behold! 
 
 One of the hens was gone. 
 
 He thought: "I suppose the vulture must have pounced on it!"
 
 The next day, he went hunting again.
 
 He happened to fall in with the fox and she asked him: 
 
 "Whither way, little Cosmo?"
  - "I am going hunting, little fox!"
  - "Well, good-bye!"
  
And immediately, she scamped off to his hut, killed another hen, cooked it, and ate it.

Cosmo came home and counted his hends and another was missing.

It occurred to him:  "What if the fox has tasted my hens?"

On the third day, he nailed up the door and window of his hut strongly, so strongly, and went about his business
 as usual.
 
 And the fox turned up and said to him: "Whither away, Cosmo?"
  - "I go hunting, little fox!" 
  - "Well, good-bye!"
  
  Off she ran to Cosmo's hut and he followed her track back too.
  
  The fox ran all round the hut and saw that the door and window were nailed up strongly, oh, so strongly. 
  
  How was she to get into the hut?
  
  So up she climbed and disappeared down the chimnye; 
  
  then up came Cosmo and caught the fox.
  
  "Ah-ha!" cried he;
  
  "look at a thief pays me visits! 
  
  "Wait a bit, my little lady; you shall not get out of my hands alive.!"
  
  Then the little fox began to implore Cosmo: "Don't kill me! I'll get thee betrothed to a rich bride.
  
  Only please roast me one more fowl, the fattest with lots of nice oil!"
  
  Little Cosmo fell thinking that he killed one more fowl for the little fox.
  
  "There, eat, little fox, and much good may it do thee!"
  
  The fox ate it up, licked her chaps, and said: 
  
  "Behind this wood is the tsardom of the great and terrible Tsar Ogon, his wife is the Tsaritsa Molnya,
   and they have a daughter, a most beauteous Tsarevna; 
   
   I'll marry thee to her."
   
    - "Who would take a poor fellow like me?"
    - "Silence! That's not thy business."
    
And the little fox set off to Tsar Ogon and the Tsaritsa Molnya. 

She ran all teh way to them, entered their palace, made a low obeisance, and said: 

"Hail, might, potent Tsar Ogon, and terrible Tsaritsa Molnya!"
 - "Hail to thee fox! What nice little piece of good news hast thou brought us?" 
 - "Well, I have come to you as a match-maker. You have the bridge 
   and I have the young bridegroom, Cosmo GetRichQuick."
 - "Where is he buried that he does not come himself?"
 - "He cannot quit his principality. He rules over the wild beasts, and takes pleasure wiht them."
 - "So that's the sort of bridgegroom you present us with! Well, go back to him and say he must
     send us forty forties of grey wolves, and then we'll accept him as the bridegroom."
     
Then the little fox ran to the meadows which lay beneath this very wood and began rolling about in these meadows.

A wolf came runningup and said: "I see, gossip, that you've had a good feed somewhere, 
 or you would not roll about like that."
  
 - "I wilsh I had not eaten so much; I've been at a banquet with teh Tsar and the Tsaritsa.
 
 Do you mean to say that you've not been invited there, gosspi?
 
 Impossible! Why all the wild beats were there, and as for the sables and ermines there was no end to them!
 
 The bears were still sitting there when I left, and eating like anything!"
 
 The wolf began to beg the fox humbly: "Little fox, can't you take me to the Tsar's banquet!?" 
  - Why not! Hearken! Go you and collect by tomorrow forty forties of your brethren, the grey wolves, and I'll lead
   the whole lot of you thither."
   
   On the following day, the wolves assembled, and the fox led them to the Tsar's white stone palace, placed
    them all in rows, and announced to the Tsar: 
    
    "Might and potent Tsar Ogon and terrible Tsaritsa Molnya, thy destined son-in-law has sent thee gifts; 
    
    Lo! a whole herd of grey wolves does obseisance to you, and the number of them is forty forties."
    
The Tsar bade them drive all the wolves into the enclosure and said to the fox: "If my destined son-in-law
 is able to send me wolves as a present, let him now also send me just as many bears."
 
 The little fox ran to little Cosmo and bade him roast another fowl, ate her fill of it, and ran off again to the
 fenced meadows of the Tsar.
 
 Thither she went and fell rolling about under teh selfsame wood.
 
 And out of the wood came running a shaggy bear and looked at the fox. 
 
 "Well, gossip fox," said he, "you have plainly had your fill, or what has come over you to make you roll about
  in teh grass so merrily?"
  
   - "Had my fill! I should think so. I have been to the Tsar's banquest; there were many of us beasts there, 
    and sables and ermines without number.
    
    The wolves are feasting there now, and a nice dinner they are making of it."
    
    The Bear begged the fox to let him go: 
    
    "Fox, won't you lead me also to the Tsar's banquet?"
    
   - "Very well, bring together by tomorrow forty forties of black bears, and I'll lead you thither with pleasure,
    for of course the Tsar's cooks would not make ready for you alone."
    
    The bear wandered about the woods and proclaimed the news to all the bears
     and got together as many bears as the fox had commanded
      and the fox led them to the Tsar's white stone palace,
       arranged them in rows, and announced: 
       
       "Mighty and potent Tsar Ogon, and terrible Tsaritsa Molnya, your destined son-in-law salutes you with 
        a present of forty forties of black bears."
        
    The Tsar bade them drive the bears also into the enclosure, and said to the fox: 
    
    "If my destined son-in-law can send me so many bears and wolves as agift, let him now send us also just 
     so many martens and sables."
     
    The fox again hastened off to Cosmo, bade him roast the last hen, together with the rooster, 
     and when she had eaten them in his honor she went again to the fenced meadows of the Tsar, 
      and began rolling about in the grass.
      
  A sable and a marten came running by. 
  
  "Where have you been feeding so fatly, Fox?"
 they asked.
 
 "What! You live in teh wood and you don't konw that I am held in great honor by the Tsar? 
 
 This day I have conducted the olves and the bears to his banquest;
 
 by this time they will be unable to tear themsleves aay from the Tsar's tid-bits; 
 
 never have they had such a feast from the day of their birth."
 
 Then the sable and the marten also began wheedling the fox.
 
 "Dear little dovey gossip! Will you not lead us to the Tsar? 
 
 We will only look on afar while the others eat."
 
  - "If you will bring together forty forties of your sables and martens a dinner shall be got ready 
   for the whole lot of you.
   
    But a couple of you all alone would not even be admitted into the courtyard."
    
    The next day the sables and the martens came together, and the fox led them to Tsar Ogon,
     made obeisance to him on behalf of his future son-in-law, and presented him 
      with teh forty forties of sables and martens. 
      
      The Tsar accepted the gift, and said: "Thanks! Tell my destined son-in-law to come to me himself;
      we want to have a look at him, and it is time he saw his bride."
      
      
      
The next day, the little fox again came running to court.

The Tsar asked the fox: 

"Where then is our destined son-in-law?

The little fox replied: 

"He bade me bow low before you and say that today he cannot manage to come to you!"

- "How so?"

- "Well, he is exceedingly busy; he is getting together all his things to come to you and just now
 he is counting up his treasures. 
 
 So he begs you to lend him a corn-measure, with which to measure his silver money; 
 
 his own corn-measures are all brimfull of gold."
 
 
 The Tsar, without more ado, gave the fox the corn-measure, but he said to himself:
 
 "Well done, fox!
 
 This is something like a son-in-law that has fallen to our lot.
 
 He actually measures his gold and silver with corn-measures!"
 
 The next day the fox again came running to court and returned the Tsar his courn-measure (but she had
 
 stuck little silver pieces all about the corners of it), and said: 
 
 "Your destined son-in-law, Cosmo GetRichQuick, bade me bow low to you and say that this day
 
 he'll be with you with all his riches."
 
 The Tsar was delighted, and bade them have everything ready for the reception of the precious guest.
 
 But the little fox set off for Cosmo's hut and there for the last two days, Cosmo 
 had been lying on the stove - hungry, oh! Hungry and waiting. 
 
 The fox said to him: "Why do you lie down like that?
 
 I ahve got thee a bride from Tsar Ogon and Tsaritsa molnya.  
 
 Let us come to them as guests and celebrate the wedding!" 
 
  - "Why, fox! Are you crazy?  How can I go when I do not even have clothes?"
  
  - "Go saddle your nag and don't bother about that!"
  
  Cosmo brought out his sorry nag from beneath the shed, covered it with a mat, 
   put on the reins, jumped on its back, and set off after the fox at a light trot.
   
   They were already drawing near to the palace when they came across a little bridge in their path."
   
   "Jump off your horse," the fox said to Cosmo.

"And saw through the buttress of this bridge."

So Cosmo saw with all of his might the buttress of the bridge. Down came the bridge with a crash. 

"Now strip naked, throw your horse and all of your clothes into the water, and roll about in the sand and wait for me!"

That's what the fox said; 

and then off she ran to teh Tsar and the Tsaritsa, and cried to them from afar:

"Hi, dear father. There was an accident."

"What's the matter?" asked the Tsar.

"The bridges of your tsardom are not strong enough. Your destined son-in-law was coming to you 
 with all his riches, and this sorry bridge broke down beneath the weight of them 
  and all his wealth and all his people have fallen in and he himself 
  is lying on the bridge more dead than alive!"
  
  The Tsar made a great to-do and shrieked at his servants and cried: 
  
  "Take off my royal robes for Cosmo GetRichQuick and save him from mortal harm!"
  
  And the envoys of teh Tsar ran as fast as they could to the bridge and there they saw Cosmo 
   rolling about in teh sand.
   
   They picked him up, washed and dried him all over, arrayed him in the royal robes, curled his hair, and led him
   respectfully to the palace.
   
   The Tsar, full of joy that his destined 
   son-in-law had been delivered from such peril, 
   bad them ring all the bells, fire all the guns, and celebrate the wedding at once.
   
   So they crowned Cosmo as the room of the Tsarevna, and he dwelt with his father-in-law and sang songs all day;
   
   and the fox was held in high honor at court until life at court ceased to weary her and she had 
    no longer any desire to return to the woods.
    
    
#################################
 
 
 
 
 
 dfasdfasdfasdf
    
    

he once went on a hunt, and only out of the house, and fox as here; 

ran, stabbed a chicken, roasted and ate. Kuzenka returned, enough - no chicken!

and thinks it is true kite dragged. The next day went to hunt again. 

Comes to meet him, chanterelle and asks:

- Where, Kuzenka, you go?

- On the hunt, fox!

- Well, good-bye! - And immediately ran to him in the house, stabbed chicken, roasted and ate.

Kuzenka came home, grabbing chickens - no! 

Palo his guess: 

"I do not eat my fox if the chickens?

But on the third day he hammered tightly in his hut windows and doors, and he set off to fish. 

Neotkul took chanterelle and asks:

- Where do you go, Kuzenka?

- On the hunt, fox!

Chanterelle immediately and ran to the house Kuzenki, and he turned so after her.

Fox ran, walked all around the house, see: 

windows and doors boarded up tightly, how to get into the house? 

Went and came down the chimney. Here Kuzenka and caught fox.

- Ba - he says - that's the thief to me complaining about. 

Wait a minute, Sudarushka, I will now live out of the hands is not released!

Chanterelle begged Kuzenku:

- Do not kill me! 

I'll do Kozma Skorobogataya, only for me to roast a chicken with one maslechkom fatter.

Kuzenka agreed and fox, When the wolf had such a fatty meal, 

ran to the king's protected meadows and became protected meadows on the ride.



Running Wolf says:

- Oh, you damn fox! Where so bold obtreskalas?

- Oh, dear volchёnёk-kumanёk! 

After all, I was the king at the feast. 


Do you kumanёk not name? 

And have there been any different animals, martens, sables, by the thousand!

Wolf and asks:

- Fox not svedёsh whether to the king and me for dinner?

Chanterelle promised and told to collect forty times forty gray wolves and bring with him. Wolf has driven forty times forty gray wolves. Fox led them to the king; as lead, now entered the white stone chambers and reverence to the king Soroka gray wolves from Kozma Skorobogataya. The king is very glad that, ordered all the wolves to drive into the fence and lock firmly. A fox ran to Kuzenke: ran, ordered roast chicken one more; had lunch and set off for a hearty protected meadows and began rolling on the grass.

Runs past the bear saw fox and says:

- Ek because you damn hvostomelya as obtreskalas!

She replies:

- I was at a party at the king; have there been any different animals, martens, sables, by the thousand! 

And even now still have - wolves feasting. 

You know, my dear kumanёk what they obedaly! 

To this day still have lunch.

Bear and asks:

- Fox not svedёsh Lee and me on a royal dinner?

Chanterelle agreed and told him to collect forty times forty black bears:

- For one you king de worry and do not want to.

Bear gathered forty times forty black bears. Fox led them to the king; 

led worship him Soroka black bears from KozmaSkorobogataya. 

Besides the king and I am glad ordered to drive them and lock firmly. 

And the fox went to Kuzenke; 

ran and told roast chicken with the latest cockerel. 

Kuzenka not withheld, fried chicken with her last cock; 

fox ate the health and empty on protected grasslands and began to roll on the green grass.

Runs past with sable marten and asks:

- Oh, you sly fox, where so bold nakushatsya?

- Oh, you, sable and marten! 

I am the king in the greatest of honor. 

He and ponynche feast and lunch on all the beasts; 

I have something poradela, quite a lot of fat eaten; 

and that the animals at the dinner was something, by the thousand! 

Only you there lacked. 

You know wolves, they are jealous, though not fat srodu edali about shu time crack king! 

And about a clumsy bear and say nothing: 

he eats potul that just breathing!

Sable marten and fox began to beg:

- Gossips, arches you have to the king; though we'll see.


Fox agreed and told them to drive away to his forty times forty sables and martens. 

Driven; 

Fox led them to the palace, and bowed to the king Soroka sables and martens from Kozma Skorobogataya. 


The king can not Hanadiv wealth Kozma Skorobogataya, 

gladly accepted the gift and ordered all the animals to kill and shoot them with the skins.



The next day the fox came running back to the king and said:

- Your Majesty! 

CosmoGetRichQuick ordered you to bow low and ask pudovki; 


SILVER razmerivat need money. 

Its something pudovki zaprostany all his gold.



The king gave the fox without failure pudovku. 


She ran and told to Kuzenke measure pudovkuyu sand to brighten at her flank! 


How to lighten it tucked in zautory as a small money and carried back to the king. 


Came and began to woo his beautiful princess for Kozma Skorobogataya. 


The king did not fail, tells Kozma completely fabricate and come. 


Kuzenka went to the king, and the fox ran forward and contract workers to file the bridge. 


Kuzenka just moved to the bridge - with him and collapsed into the water. 


Fox began to shout:

- Ahti! CosmoGetRichQuick gone!

The king heard, and immediately sent men to intercept Kozma. 

So they seized him, dressed in elegant dress and brought before the king.

He married the princess and live the king and two week.

- Well, - said the king - let's go now, my dear son-in to your house.

Kozma is nothing to do, it is necessary to gather. 


Harnessed horses and rode. 

A fox went forward. 


Run, run, looks shepherds herding a flock of sheep; 

she asks them- The shepherds, the shepherds! 


Whose herd of grazing?

Shepherds say:

- Herd king Zmiulana.

Chanterelle start to teach them:

- I say to everyone that this herd Kozma Skorobogataya, not Zmiulana-king; 


and then go king queen Malanitsa Fire yes; 


if he does not tell them that this herd Kozma Skorobogataya - they are all of you and with the sheep,

then burn and slept.




Shepherds see that it neminuchee, we must obey, 

and promises every affects about Kozma Skorobogataya like a fox taught.

A fox was started up ahead, he sees - the shepherds guard pigs, and asks:


- The shepherds, the shepherds! Whose herd of grazing?

- King Zmiulana.

- It is said that the herd is Skorobogataya Kozma and then ride the king and queen Malanitsa fire,

they will burn you all and slept,

if commemorate become king Zmiulana.



Shepherds agreed.

Fox again ran forward; 

reaches the cow herd Zmiulana king, then to horse herd and tells the shepherds speak,

because these herds Skorobogataya Kozma, of the king as Zmiulane not to say anything. 



Reaches fox and camel herds before.

- The shepherds, the shepherds! Whose herd of grazing?

- King Zmiulana.

Fox strictly forbade them affects about King Zmiulane and told to say that this herd Kozma Skorobogataya; 

and that the king and queen Malanitsa Fire burn and slept the whole herd!

Fox again ran forward, turns into the realm of the king Zmiulana and straight into the white stone chamber.

- What do you say, Fox?

- Well, the king Zmiulan, now it is necessary soon-hastily hide. 

Fire goes formidable king and the queen Malanitsa, all the wiring and firing. 

Thy cattle and herdsmen cauterized;

first sheep, then pork, and then the cow and horse.

I did not linger, let to tell you a bit of smoke and not zadohlas!

King Zmiulan zakruchinilsya-zapechalilsya:

- Oh, fox, where do I go?

- Is your garden old oak reserve, median all povygnila; 


run and was buried in the hollow, while they will pass by do not.

Zmiulan king suddenly going and say how to write, did as the fox taught.

A CosmoGetRichQuick rides themselves so traveling with his wife and father in law. 
They get off to herd sheep. 

Young Princess and asks:

- Shepherdess, shepherdess whose herd grazes?

- CosmoGetRichQuick - meet shepherds.

The king and I am glad that:

- Well, my dear son-in much the same you sheep.

They go on, run to the herd of swine.

- Shepherdess, shepherdess - asks young princess - whose herd grazes?

- CosmoGetRichQuick.

- Well, my dear son-in much the same you pigs.

They go on and on; Herd of cows grazing here, there horse and camel there. 

Ask the shepherds:

- Whose herd grazes? - They know themselves responsible one:

-CosmoGetRichQuick.

Here come to the king's palace; the fox meets and introduces them to the Chamber of white stone. 

The king came and zadivilsya: so well was removed! 

Come feast, drink, eat and be merry! 

They live day to live a week.

- Well, Kuzenka - says fox - stop for a walk, it is necessary to correct the matter. 

Go with the dough in a green garden; 

in the garden is an old oak and oak in the sitting king Zmiulan - you hid. Shoot the tree into small pieces!

Then Kuzenka on the above, according to the book, went along with the dough in a green garden, 
and they became the oak fire and killed the king Zmiulana to death. 

CosmoGetRichQuick reigned in that state, and he became a princess to live so happily, and now live - bread chew. 

The Foxes every day were treated hens, and it is until they have guests, 

up to where all chickens are deceived with dirty tricks.



