There once lived Kuzenka all alone in a dark forest; 

He had a thin little house, but a cock, and five chickens. 

This Kuzenke fox got into the habit to walk; 

he once went on a hunt, and only out of the house, and fox as here; 

ran, stabbed a chicken, roasted and ate. Kuzenka returned, enough - no chicken!

and thinks it is true kite dragged. The next day went to hunt again. 

Comes to meet him, chanterelle and asks:

- Where, Kuzenka, you go?

- On the hunt, fox!

- Well, good-bye! - And immediately ran to him in the house, stabbed chicken, roasted and ate.

Kuzenka came home, grabbing chickens - no! 

Palo his guess: 

"I do not eat my fox if the chickens?

But on the third day he hammered tightly in his hut windows and doors, and he set off to fish. 

Neotkul took chanterelle and asks:

- Where do you go, Kuzenka?

- On the hunt, fox!

Chanterelle immediately and ran to the house Kuzenki, and he turned so after her.

Fox ran, walked all around the house, see: 

windows and doors boarded up tightly, how to get into the house? 

Went and came down the chimney. Here Kuzenka and caught fox.

- Ba - he says - that's the thief to me complaining about. 

Wait a minute, Sudarushka, I will now live out of the hands is not released!

Chanterelle begged Kuzenku:

- Do not kill me! 

I'll do Kozma Skorobogataya, only for me to roast a chicken with one maslechkom fatter.

Kuzenka agreed and fox, When the wolf had such a fatty meal, 

ran to the king's protected meadows and became protected meadows on the ride.



Running Wolf says:

- Oh, you damn fox! Where so bold obtreskalas?

- Oh, dear volchёnёk-kumanёk! 

After all, I was the king at the feast. 


Do you kumanёk not name? 

And have there been any different animals, martens, sables, by the thousand!

Wolf and asks:

- Fox not svedёsh whether to the king and me for dinner?

Chanterelle promised and told to collect forty times forty gray wolves and bring with him. Wolf has driven forty times forty gray wolves. Fox led them to the king; as lead, now entered the white stone chambers and reverence to the king Soroka gray wolves from Kozma Skorobogataya. The king is very glad that, ordered all the wolves to drive into the fence and lock firmly. A fox ran to Kuzenke: ran, ordered roast chicken one more; had lunch and set off for a hearty protected meadows and began rolling on the grass.

Runs past the bear saw fox and says:

- Ek because you damn hvostomelya as obtreskalas!

She replies:

- I was at a party at the king; have there been any different animals, martens, sables, by the thousand! 

And even now still have - wolves feasting. 

You know, my dear kumanёk what they obedaly! 

To this day still have lunch.

Bear and asks:

- Fox not svedёsh Lee and me on a royal dinner?

Chanterelle agreed and told him to collect forty times forty black bears:

- For one you king de worry and do not want to.

Bear gathered forty times forty black bears. Fox led them to the king; 

led worship him Soroka black bears from KozmaSkorobogataya. 

Besides the king and I am glad ordered to drive them and lock firmly. 

And the fox went to Kuzenke; 

ran and told roast chicken with the latest cockerel. 

Kuzenka not withheld, fried chicken with her last cock; 

fox ate the health and empty on protected grasslands and began to roll on the green grass.

Runs past with sable marten and asks:

- Oh, you sly fox, where so bold nakushatsya?

- Oh, you, sable and marten! 

I am the king in the greatest of honor. 

He and ponynche feast and lunch on all the beasts; 

I have something poradela, quite a lot of fat eaten; 

and that the animals at the dinner was something, by the thousand! 

Only you there lacked. 

You know wolves, they are jealous, though not fat srodu edali about shu time crack king! 

And about a clumsy bear and say nothing: 

he eats potul that just breathing!

Sable marten and fox began to beg:

- Gossips, arches you have to the king; though we'll see.


Fox agreed and told them to drive away to his forty times forty sables and martens. 

Driven; 

Fox led them to the palace, and bowed to the king Soroka sables and martens from Kozma Skorobogataya. 


The king can not Hanadiv wealth Kozma Skorobogataya, 

gladly accepted the gift and ordered all the animals to kill and shoot them with the skins.



The next day the fox came running back to the king and said:

- Your Majesty! 

CosmoGetRichQuick ordered you to bow low and ask pudovki; 


SILVER razmerivat need money. 

Its something pudovki zaprostany all his gold.



The king gave the fox without failure pudovku. 


She ran and told to Kuzenke measure pudovkuyu sand to brighten at her flank! 


How to lighten it tucked in zautory as a small money and carried back to the king. 


Came and began to woo his beautiful princess for Kozma Skorobogataya. 


The king did not fail, tells Kozma completely fabricate and come. 


Kuzenka went to the king, and the fox ran forward and contract workers to file the bridge. 


Kuzenka just moved to the bridge - with him and collapsed into the water. 


Fox began to shout:

- Ahti! CosmoGetRichQuick gone!

The king heard, and immediately sent men to intercept Kozma. 

So they seized him, dressed in elegant dress and brought before the king.

He married the princess and live the king and two week.

- Well, - said the king - let's go now, my dear son-in to your house.

Kozma is nothing to do, it is necessary to gather. 


Harnessed horses and rode. 

A fox went forward. 


Run, run, looks shepherds herding a flock of sheep; 

she asks them- The shepherds, the shepherds! 


Whose herd of grazing?

Shepherds say:

- Herd king Zmiulana.

Chanterelle start to teach them:

- I say to everyone that this herd Kozma Skorobogataya, not Zmiulana-king; 


and then go king queen Malanitsa Fire yes; 


if he does not tell them that this herd Kozma Skorobogataya - they are all of you and with the sheep,

then burn and slept.




Shepherds see that it neminuchee, we must obey, 

and promises every affects about Kozma Skorobogataya like a fox taught.

A fox was started up ahead, he sees - the shepherds guard pigs, and asks:


- The shepherds, the shepherds! Whose herd of grazing?

- King Zmiulana.

- It is said that the herd is Skorobogataya Kozma and then ride the king and queen Malanitsa fire,

they will burn you all and slept,

if commemorate become king Zmiulana.



Shepherds agreed.

Fox again ran forward; 

reaches the cow herd Zmiulana king, then to horse herd and tells the shepherds speak,

because these herds Skorobogataya Kozma, of the king as Zmiulane not to say anything. 



Reaches fox and camel herds before.

- The shepherds, the shepherds! Whose herd of grazing?

- King Zmiulana.

Fox strictly forbade them affects about King Zmiulane and told to say that this herd Kozma Skorobogataya; 

and that the king and queen Malanitsa Fire burn and slept the whole herd!

Fox again ran forward, turns into the realm of the king Zmiulana and straight into the white stone chamber.

- What do you say, Fox?

- Well, the king Zmiulan, now it is necessary soon-hastily hide. 

Fire goes formidable king and the queen Malanitsa, all the wiring and firing. 

Thy cattle and herdsmen cauterized;

first sheep, then pork, and then the cow and horse.

I did not linger, let to tell you a bit of smoke and not zadohlas!

King Zmiulan zakruchinilsya-zapechalilsya:

- Oh, fox, where do I go?

- Is your garden old oak reserve, median all povygnila; 


run and was buried in the hollow, while they will pass by do not.

Zmiulan king suddenly going and say how to write, did as the fox taught.

A CosmoGetRichQuick rides themselves so traveling with his wife and father in law. 
They get off to herd sheep. 

Young Princess and asks:

- Shepherdess, shepherdess whose herd grazes?

- CosmoGetRichQuick - meet shepherds.

The king and I am glad that:

- Well, my dear son-in much the same you sheep.

They go on, run to the herd of swine.

- Shepherdess, shepherdess - asks young princess - whose herd grazes?

- CosmoGetRichQuick.

- Well, my dear son-in much the same you pigs.

They go on and on; Herd of cows grazing here, there horse and camel there. 

Ask the shepherds:

- Whose herd grazes? - They know themselves responsible one:

-CosmoGetRichQuick.

Here come to the king's palace; the fox meets and introduces them to the Chamber of white stone. 

The king came and zadivilsya: so well was removed! 

Come feast, drink, eat and be merry! 

They live day to live a week.

- Well, Kuzenka - says fox - stop for a walk, it is necessary to correct the matter. 

Go with the dough in a green garden; 

in the garden is an old oak and oak in the sitting king Zmiulan - you hid. Shoot the tree into small pieces!

Then Kuzenka on the above, according to the book, went along with the dough in a green garden, 
and they became the oak fire and killed the king Zmiulana to death. 

CosmoGetRichQuick reigned in that state, and he became a princess to live so happily, and now live - bread chew. 

The Foxes every day were treated hens, and it is until they have guests, 

up to where all chickens are deceived with dirty tricks.



