
Was his own man and had three sons, two smart, and the third a fool. 

By a host upadilosya2 in wheat and that day - morgu3 zedalo. 

Sent to the owner of the first night's eldest son vartavats4; 

he command, sat sat, and at the very early and went to sleep, 

how to raise, then found netseluyu wheat. 

On the second night seredni commandment, and he, too, fell asleep in the morning 

- and something to eat wheat. 





On the third night the command of a fool; 

He once came, so in the evening and went to bed and got up in the morning and sit - up bird flies.

He crept up and caught the birdie and plunged into the bag, and he went to bed.

The next day early to come to watch older brothers wheat - up wheat whole, but a fool is sleeping. 

They woke fool and asked: 

"Why now whole wheat?" 

He told me to take everything as it was, and showed Nightingale who was sitting in the fur. 

They took away the fool birdie and parents will incur on display. 

Came to his father, 

they said that a fool is sleeping and that they caught Nightingale who was sitting on wheat and ate. 

Father, making out that Nightingale suffered her to the king. 

Krul took Nightingale paid for it, and said that a man close to sklepu5, and gave the key to his wife.



She sat ambitious sat in the basement, 

up ran to the door Little Kraljevic. 

Duck is the bird close to ask Kraljevic chalavechaskim voice that he had missed her. 

"How could I miss, if the key to the vault in my uterus neck?" 

- Said Kraljevic. 

"Take padlaschysya6 to the uterus, adkradi key and let me out," 

- said Bird. 

The Kraljevic so did come to his mother, begot pestsitstsa7, open the key and let the birdie; and the one bird 

- it was masenzhny old man, and he is coming out of the cellar, Kraljevic said: 

"As what you will need, then just go out into the yard and say masenzhny Grandpa, help me! 

- So I'm prystavlyusya, and then only need be, then all do. "

The next day Krul pasprashav guests to seeing such a strange bird. 

Pazezhzhalisya guests to watch the birds and in the afternoon went to the cellar; 

come back, unlocked the cellar; even the birds do not have! King is now his wife, as they were in her keys. 

Wife insisted prysyagalasya that not vypuschala birdie, but she did not believe her and sentenced that stratsits8. 


She cried, cried, and then remembered that colonies that her son and dabbled pevno9 he unlocked; 

she said to her husband, and all the guests. 

Guests some said that the son hang, others said 

- to drown, and one of the guests say make him a pig coat and let in the light. 

All this zgadilisya10. 


Uterus very crying, and after seeing that crying will not help,

said bring the pork and coat panashivala he prynaymney thousand one hundred pennies a piece of paper and gold,

and expelled him.

He took kiёk11 yes commandment. 

He is crying that he gave way to the sun? 


Up comes to his mind masenzhny old man; 


he vzashey the mountain and said,


"Grandpa Masenzhny! 

Help me.

So now that the old man came to him and asked what he wanted?


He told it like it was, and requested that he be helped. 


The old man, thinking, said:

"You go for moro12 to the king and ask him to take you for kuhtsika13;


it will take you, but now there is a war, and you ask for in a chef to you pazvoliv paytsi14 view of the war, 

and how he pazvolits you, come out of the gate and call me."



He listened to my grandfather and Kraljevic commandment; 


He comes for the Moros - worth up palats15, and the yard resemble Krul. 

Kraljevic in pig coat approached the king and begged to take him to her at the kitchen. 


King agreed and told to go to the kitchen. 

He served in the King years, second, third as much as the bastard was the war. 

Krul assembled troops, he vabravsya and went to war. 

Kitchen to learn that the king had left, begot ask the cook to see him pazvoliv war; 

Cook did not want pazvolits, but Kraljevic gave cook five rubles, and he pazvoliv him. 

Kraljevic came for bramu16 and begot call masenzhnogo grandfather.

Dzyadok now prystavivsya, gave him a horse, vabrav in ahvitserskae dress, gave the sword, 
gave a silver apple and said, "You're in a war that the sword hit all the enemy troops; 


Krul will ask you to his palace, but you do not go; 

and getoe apples as you get back to the palace, you'll swing, and will have to ask you this kralevna bullseye, 

you then give it to her, when she pazvolits you spend the night in kralevny room at the threshold." 




Kraljevic did so, went to war, smitten all the host; 

King requested that he came to the palace, but he refused.


After arriving home, Divert in its swine coat, came to the kitchen; 

there, he washed nachynё17, conceived to pump silver apple - 

down goes kralevna and she saw that apples and conceived to ask him, so he sold it. 

"I do not want anything, only - to kralevna pazvolila svaёm in the room at the threshold of the night."

- "Good!" 

- Said kralevna and took the bullseye. 

As night fell, the commandment to Kraljevic kralevny room, 

spent the night at the doorstep and returned to the kitchen.



Tserez two years has again become a war; 

King also collected an army and went. 

Kitchen earnestly asked the cook to war vzashey the gate, called the grandfather, and he is now prystavivsya; 


gave Kraljevic horse vabrav in ahvitserskae dress, gave the golden apple, and said to give it kralevne, 

tagda when she pazvolits spend the night at his lozhka18. 


Kraljevic also broke the enemy troops; 

Krul had asked him to the palace, but he refused and returned home.

Washing your nachynё,

begot swing and have fun with their apple 

- up re-entered kralevna conceived and request that he sold the bullseye. 


He replied that zhadnay19 board does not want to just want to 

- to spend the night with him pazvolila svaёm bed. 

Kralevna pazvolila and took the bullseye. 

Kraljevic met, the commandment to kralevny room, 

spent the night in bed and the next day kralevny commandment to the kitchen and began to work.


Tserez three years once again become a war. 

Krul gathered his army and he went to war. 


Kraljevic, vyprasivshysya in chef's command to see nibyto20 war.


Coming out of the gate, and called masenzhnogo grandfather; 


he now prystavivsya, gave him another lepshago horse and apples such as the sun, and said, 

"You again hit all enemy troops, you wound in the arm, Krul will ask to yourself, 

but you do not go; getoe apples and you give kralevne tagda when she pazvolits you sleep on svaёm bed." 


Kraljevic, sat on the horse, flew to the war; 



Arriving there, now conceived hack enemy army, perarubav all but one of Chablis Kraljevic hit on the arm 

and wounded him. 


The king, seeing that he was wounded, jumped right now, withdrew his neck hustku21, 

abvertsev wound and let his ring as a keepsake, 

requested that he went to his palace to rest; 




Kraljevic but did not want to hit a horse and disappeared behind the grief. 


Krul was very pleased that the three war ended happily and took a lot of other edges.

Kraljevic put his horse, dressed in a fur coat and a pig came to the kitchen. 


There razpytyvalisya him that he had seen? And he talked about usёm as a gentleman

broke enemy army as Krul gave his handkerchief and his ring on memory and as requested by itself, 

but the gentleman did not want to. 



After washing their customs nachynё and pots, 

became themselves entertained with an apple that asvetsilo whole kitchen. 



As he entertained with apple, went to the kitchen and kralevna seeing this apple,

conceived very request that he sold it, and she would give him just as much money as he wants. 

Kraljevic in pig coat said he does not want money, just wants 

- to kralevna pazvolila svaёm sleep on the bed. 



Kralevna agreed and told Kitchen send his bed. 


As night fell, Kitchen commandment to kralevny room, figured out and lay on her bed that.

The next day, the twelfth round gadiny22 at noon prachhnuvsya23, Kraljevic and said to ask for a king. 


Having lived zdivivshysya, vabravsya in uniform, sat in the carriage and came. 

Arriving at the palace, now the spies saw a strange, but she missed him everywhere, and the King dashov to Kraljevic room. 

Once opened the door, ran spatykats24 Kraljevic, greeted the king and asked to sit. 

King then found one that was three times during the war, and all three times broke the enemy army; 

also learned to Kraljevic hand his handkerchief and ring finger. 

Krul begot bow Kraljevic that helped him in the war, and led to his daughter. 

A kralevna long love him, because he was very good, and now supports him zaruchylasya25. 

On espoused Kraljevic told how he was kicked out of the house, as they apekavavsya26 masenzhny old man, 

as he came for the Moros, as the old man gave him an apple.

Pledged to be married in three Sundays was very vyaselle27 guchnoe28, 

and the wedding went on to roditsav Kraljevic. 


Batski29 they did not know, as had his son for prapavshago: 

were very glad that my son znash, 

and especially the mother who conceived razpytyvatstsa:

which way he went so Daleko? 

Kraljevic now about masenzhnom Grandpa,

as he started already for Moreau, 

he served as the kitchen, as he was in the war; 

razkazav about apples, and after - how to open and Krull as enlisted and married with kralevnayu. 


They lived happy for a long time; 

and after his father kralevny and Kraljevic were dead and their pazapisyvali kralevstva them. 

A masenzhny old man was with them until death, and a lot of them helped usёm, especially in the war. 

Often they do points on which I was, honey-wine drinking; 

beard flowed, and the mouth is not horrible.


