There were three brothers , two is smart , and the third a fool ; clever brothers went into the lower city to buy goods 
and fool say , " Well, look , fool , listen to our wives and honor as his own mother , and we buy you red boots and coat 
red, and a red shirt . " Fool said to them , "Okay , I'll read ." They gave orders to the fool , and themselves went into 
the lower city , but a fool lay on the stove and lies . Daughter said to him: " What are you , stupid ! Brothers told us 
you read this and you want to bring the gift , and you are lying on the stove , nothing works , at least for the convergen
ce of water. " Fool took a bucket and went to fetch water , scooped up water and hit him pike in a bucket. Fool and said: 
" Thank God ! Now I Navara though this pike itself naemsya and daughters- not ladies, I angry at them ! " He said to him 
pike human voice: " Do not eat , fool me, let me go back in the water, you will be happy ! " Fool asks:" What w from you 
happiness? "-" But what happiness , what do you say, what will ! Tell me : if by magic , in my petition , Turn, buckets 
themselves home and put into place . " Once this fool said , buckets themselves immediately went home and put into place. 
And sister staring divuyutsya . "What is he for a fool! - Speak . - You see how tricky he buckets themselves came home and put in their place . "

Fool came and lay down on the stove ; daughter began again to say to him: " What are you , stupid , lay on the stove ! No 
wood , go for firewood . " Fool took two axes , sat in his sleigh , horses are harnessed . " By pike , - he says - the 
wand in my petition roll , sled in the woods ! " Sani rolled soon so briskly , as if someone chases them . We had to go 
past the town fool , and he had no horse so crushed people that the horror ! Then all shouted : "Stop it! Catch him ! "- 
But not caught. Fool drove into the woods , came out of the sleigh , sat on Kolodin and said: " One slash ax at the root , 
the other - if the wood ! " That chop firewood and naklalis in the sleigh . Fool says, " Well, one ax , and now I just try 
and cut kukovu1 , that was what was of lift ." Ax went and cut him cookies , cookie has come, lay down in air . Fool sat 
down and went , going past the town , and the people gathered in the city , long waits to see him . Here fool caught began 
to win yes pinch ; fool and says, " as if by magic , in my petition , Go, cookies , and arrange it at that! " Cookie 
jumped up and went to break, bash and nailed great many people , people like sheaves, so the ground and raining ! Escaped 
from them fool and came home firewood stacked , and he sat on the stove .

Here the townspeople began to beat him and told the king humbly : " So it is not de - take , I must Zaluchchia deception , 
and best of all to promise him a red shirt , a red coat and red boots ." Came for a fool royal messengers . "Go , - they 
say - to the king , and he will give you red boots , red coat and a red shirt ." What a fool and said, " According to Pike 
, in my petition , stove , go to the king ! " Sam sat on the stove , the stove and went . Fool came to the king. King really wanted to execute him, yes that was the daughter of the king , and it hurt like a fool , she began to ask her father to give her to marry a fool . Father angry , married them and told to put both into the barrel , the barrel tar and let the water. So it was done .

Long time floating barrel on the sea ; wife became a fool to ask : " Grant that we have thrown ashore ." Fool said: "On the Pike , my petition - throw out this barrel ashore and tear it ! " They went out of the barrel ; wife again became a fool to ask him to build any hut . Fool said: "On the Pike , my petition - Build a marble palace , and that this palace was just opposite the royal palace ! " Now all turned , and the king saw the new palace in the morning and sent to know who lives there ? As soon as he learned that his daughter lives there , at that moment demanded train with her husband to her. They came , and the king pardoned them , and began to live together , happily ever after .
