In a certain kingdom , in a country , there lived a king and queen , the children they had . They began to pray to God 
to provide them with the brainchild of mladosti on poglyadenie , and to feed the old age , prayed , went to bed and 
slept soundly .

In the dream he dreamed that far from the palace there is a quiet pond, in the pond swims zlatopery ruff , if the queen 
will eat it , now may become pregnant. King and queen woke up , clicked to his mamok and nurses , they began to tell his 
dream . Nurse and a nurse so reasoned that in a dream dreamed it could happen and reality .

King urged fishermen to catch and severely punished zlatoperogo ruff . At the dawn came fishermen on a quiet pond , 
threw the network and their happiness with the first train toneyu caught zlatopery ruff . Took him brought to the palace 
, and as she saw the queen , could not sit still in place , the fishermen soon ran up , grabbed hands , large treasury 
awarded , after she called her favorite cook and gave her ruff zlatoperogo from hand to hand : " On , to prepare dinner 
, but seeing that no one before him had touched . "

Cook cleaned ruff , washed and cooked , slop on exposed yard , the yard went cow slop they drank , ate fish queen , and 
cook dishes to curry favor . And once zabryuhateli : the queen and her favorite cook, and a cow , and resolved all at 
one time three sons : the queen was born Ivan Tsarevich , the cook - cook's son, Ivan , Ivan Bykovich a cow .

Boys began to grow by leaps and bounds as a good test for Opare rises , and they are drawn up . All three fellow per 
person failed, and it was impossible to recognize which of them royal child , who - who cooks and cow people. Only to 
distinguish them and how to goal celebrations , Prince Ivan asks linen change , the cook

226


son tries to eat something , and Ivan Bykovich lies right on vacation . By the tenth year they came to the king and said 
: "Dear our Father! Make us an iron stick to fifty pounds . " The king ordered his blacksmiths forge iron stick to fifty 
pounds , and those set to work and made ​​a week . Nobody sticks out on one side can not lift , and Ivan Tsarevich Ivan 
cook's son, yes , yes Ivan Bykovich between her fingers is inverted , like a feather quill .

They went out on a royal court . " Well , my friends, - says Ivan Tsarevich - let's try to force : who will be the big 
brother ." - "Well, - Ivan replied Bykovich - take a stick and hit us on the shoulders ." Ivan Tsarevich took iron stick 
, hit a cook 's son Ivan Ivan yes Bykovicha on the shoulders and drove both on the knee to the ground. Cook's son, Ivan 
hit - drove Ivan Tsarevich Ivan Bykovicha yes to his chest in the ground ; Bykovich and Ivan hit - drove the two 
brothers to the neck . "Let us , - said the prince , - will attempt to force more : let us throw iron stick up , who 
will throw up - he will be bigger brother ." - "Well , you throw ! " Ivan Tsarevich cast - stick a quarter of an hour 
ago fell cook's son, Ivan dropped - dropped the stick in half an hour , and Ivan threw Bykovich - only an hour goal. 
"Well, Ivan Bykovich ! Whether you're a big brother . "


After they went to walk in the garden and found a huge stone. " Look what a gem ! Miles can not move it from its place ? "- Said Ivan Tsarevich , put his hands into it , fumbled , fumbled - no, do not take power ; tried cook's son, Ivan - stone slightly moved . Ivan Bykovich tells them : " Finely you swim ! Wait, I'll try . " Went up to the stone so as it will move his foot - stone azhno boomed and rolled to the other side of the garden and broke all sorts of trees. Under that stone cellar opened in the basement there are three heroic horse , harness hanging on the walls Ratna : In what good fellows carousing ! They immediately ran to the king and began to ask : "Sovereign Father! Bless us to go to foreign lands , by the people to see themselves in the show people . " King blessed them , on the road Treasury awarded , they said goodbye to the king , took the heroic horses and on their way empty.

Went down dale , through the mountains, the green meadows , and came to a great forest , in the forest hut stands on Kuryachii legged lamb on the horns when necessary - is inverted . "Hut , hut , turn to us before , back to the forest , we climb into you , bread and salt esti ." Hut turned . Good fellows are included in the hut - on the stove is Baba Yaga bone leg , from corner to corner , nose to the ceiling . " Fu Fu Fu ! First Russian spirit had never heard , not seen views , now the Russian spirit sits on a spoon , rolling himself in the mouth . " - "Hey, old lady , do not scold , get off the stove Single yes sit on the bench . Ask : where we're going ? Dobrenkov I tell you. " Baba Yaga got off the stove suited to Ivan Bykovichu close bowed low to him : "Hello , Father Ivan Bykovich ! Where are you going , where are you going ? "-" We're going , grandmother, river currant, viburnum on the bridge , I heard that there is no one miracle Yudo

227

lives . " - " Ah yes, Vanya ! The cause bethought , because they , villains, all pripolonili , all ruined , ball rolled nearer the kingdom . "

The brothers spent the night at the Baba Yaga , up early in the morning and went on their way . Come to the river currant , all along the coast lie the bones of men, to be piled knee ! They saw the hut , entered it - pustehonka and heads to stop there . It is the case in the evening. Says Ivan Bykovich : " Brothers! We stopped at chuzhedalnuyu side, you have to live with us ostorozhkoyu , let's turn to go watch . " Thrown foals - got it the first night watchman, Ivan Tsarevich , the other - the cook's son, Ivan , and the third - Ivan Bykovichu .

Prince Ivan went on patrol , crawled into the bushes and was fast asleep . Ivan Bykovich not relied on him , and as time went past midnight - he was immediately ready , took a sword and shield, went out and stood under the bridge viburnum . Suddenly the river water excited on oaks eagles cried - leaves miracle Yudo six-headed ; beneath horse stumbled, black crow on his shoulder started, behind hort1 bristled . Says miracle Yudo six-headed : "What are you , dog meat , you stumble , you crowquill , tremble , and you, Dog- wool, bristled ? Al you think Ivan Bykovich here ? So he , my good fellow , not yet born, but if he was born - so the war is not amiss : I have it on one hand planted another prihlopnu - only mokrenkaya will ! "

Ivan jumped Bykovich : " Do not boast the Evil ! Not catching clear falcon feathers early pinching , not tasted good fellow , nothing to blaspheme him. And let's try to force better : who overcomes , and he boast . " Here they have met - caught up , so cruelly hit that circle the earth groaned . Yudu miracle - not lucky Ivan Bykovich with one sweep knocked him three heads. "Stop, Ivan Bykovich ! Give me rozdyhu . " - "What Rozdil ! You , evil spirits , three heads , I have only one , here is how you will be one head , and then let us relax . " Again they met again hit ; Bykovich Ivan cut off a miracle last - Yuda and head, took the body - cut into small pieces and tossed into the river currant, and six goals under the bridge folded viburnum . Himself back into the hut . Morning comes Ivan Tsarevich . "Well, did not see any thing ? " - " No, brothers , fly past me and did not fly ."

The next night went to watch the cook's son Ivan , climbed into the bush and fell asleep. Ivan Bykovich not relied on him , and as time went past midnight - he immediately shells, took a sword and shield, went out and stood under the bridge viburnum . Suddenly the river water excited on oaks eagles noisily - leaves miracle Yudo The nine ; underneath the horse stumbled, black crow on his shoulder started, behind Hort bristled . Miracle Yudo horse thighs , crow feathers , Horta 's ears : "What are you , dog meat , you stumble , you crowquill , tremble , you Dog- wool, hair ? Al you think Ivan Bykovich here ? So he was not born yet , but if he was born - so the war is not amiss , I 'll kill him with one finger ! "

228

Ivan jumped Bykovich : "Wait - do not boast before God and pray , wash your hands but for the cause of impurity ! Still unknown - who would win ! " How wag hero for his sharp sword once or twice , and have carried the evil forces six goals ; miracle Yudo and hit - on his knees in the damp earth drove . Ivan Bykovich grabbed a handful of dirt and threw it right in their suprotivniku eyes . While the miracle Yudo rubbing their enormous eyes , hero felled him and the rest of the head, took the body - cut into small pieces and tossed into the river currant, and nine goals under the bridge folded viburnum . The next morning comes cook's son, Ivan . " Well, brother , did not see any that night ? " - " No, none beside me fly do not fly , no mosquito squeak ! " Ivan Bykovich led the brothers under the bridge viburnum , showed them the dead on the head and began to shame " Ah, you sleepyhead , where you fight? You would at home lying on the stove . "

On the third night is going to go on patrol Ivan Bykovich ; took a white towel hung on the wall and on the floor beneath the bowl and put the brothers said : "I 'm going to a terrible fight , and you , my friends, do not sleep all night so watching, as will be towels with blood flow : if half bowl nabezhit - okay deal if full bowl nabezhit - all personal and pour over the edge if - immediately descends from the chains of my athletic horse and yourself in a hurry to help me . "

Here stands Ivan Bykovich Kalinove under the bridge ; went time after midnight on the river water excited on oaks eagles noisily - leaves miracle Yudo twelve- ; horse him about twelve wings , silver hair , the horse tail and mane - gold . Rides miracle Yudo , suddenly beneath the horse stumbled, black crow on his shoulder started, behind Hort bristled . Miracle Yudo horse thighs , crow feathers , Horta 's ears : "What are you , dog meat , you stumble , you crowquill , tremble , you Dog- wool, hair ? Al you think Ivan Bykovich here ? So he was not born yet , but if he was born - so the war is not amiss , I just tung - and his ashes will remain ! "

Ivan jumped Bykovich : "Wait - do not boast before God and pray " - " Oh, you're here! Why did you come ? "-" On you, evil spirits , see your fortress to try . " - "Where are you my fortress try ? You fly in front of me ! " Ivan Meets Bykovich : " I came to you not to tell tales , and fight to the death . " Swung his sharp sword and cut the miracle - Yudu three heads. Miracle Yudo picked these heads , scribbled on them with his flaming finger - and all at once rooted head , shoulders , and if not fall ! Poor Ivan had Bykovichu ; miracle Yudo began to overpower him , drove up to his knees in the damp earth . "Stop the Evil ! Kings kings fight , and those doing the pacification , and we're going to war without uzhli rozdyhu ? Give me rozdyhu though up to three times . "

Miracle Yudo agreed ; Bykovich Ivan took the right mitt and let the hut . Mitten broke all the windows , and his brothers are asleep, hear nothing . Another time Ivan swung Bykovich stronger and cut the former miracle - Yudu six goals ; miracle Yudo picked them stressed fiery finger - and again every head on the ground and scored Ivan Bykovicha he

229

Time in the damp earth . Requested rozdyhu hero , took the left mitt and let the hut . Mitten roof broke , and the brothers are all asleep , hear nothing . The third time he swung harder and cut - Yudu miracle nine goals ; miracle Yudo picked them stressed fiery finger - again rooted head and Ivan Bykovicha drove it in damp earth to the shoulders . Ivan Bykovich requested rozdyhu , took off his hat and put into the hut , hut on strike collapsed , all the logs peals .

Only then did the brothers woke up and looked - a bowl of blood pours over the edge , and the heroic horse neighs loudly but with chains breaking. They rushed to the stables , horse lowered , and behind him and themselves to help in a hurry. "Ah! - Says miracle Yudo - you live deception ; help you there . " Heroic horse ran , he began to beat his hoofs , and Ivan Bykovich meanwhile, climbed out of the ground, and cut prilovchilis miracle - Yudu fiery finger. Once let him chop heads knocked every single , trunk into small pieces and threw all differing in river currant. Resorted brothers . " Hey, you sleepyhead ! - Says Ivan Bykovich . - Because of your sleep I almost paid with his head . "

Raneshenko morning came Ivan Bykovich in the open field , struck the ground and became a sparrow flew to the white stone chambers and sat in the little window open . Saw his old witch , sprinkled grain and began to tell : " Vorobyshek Stint ! You flew corns eat, listen to my grief . Mocked me Ivan Bykovich , all my sons- hassled . " - " Do not worry , my dear ! We will repay him for everything "- say miracle Yudov wife. "Here I am - says smaller - napuschu hunger, she 'll go out on the road so I will be an apple tree with gold and silver apples : apple who picks - that now burst ." - " And I, - says Farmgate - napuschu thirst itself will do well, and on the water will swim two bowls : one gold and one silver , and who will undertake for the cup - that I 'll drown ." - " And I, - says the elder - napuschu sleep , and she throw the golden crib , who lies on the bed - he will burn with fire ."

Ivan Bykovich listened to these speeches , flew back , struck the ground and became still good fellow . Three brothers gathered and went home . They go way, hunger hurts them badly , and there is nothing . Lo and behold - worth apple tree with golden and silver apples , Ivan Tsarevich Ivan yes cook's son, let it rip apples , yes Ivan Bykovich advance into a gallop and let chop apple crosswise - only blood splatters ! So did he and the cistern and a golden cot. Sgibli miracle Yudov wife. How to check on that old witch , dressed beggar , ran onto the road and stands with a knapsack . Ivan rides Bykovich brothers , she reached out and began to beg .

Tsarevich Ivan Bykovichu says : " Brother ! Is our little golden treasury father ? Give this holy beggar alms . " Ivan took Bykovich ducat and takes the old woman , she is not taken for money, and takes his hand and suddenly disappeared with him . Brothers looked - no old woman , nor Ivan Bykovicha and rode home with fear , tails tucked .

230

A witch dragged Ivan Bykovicha in the dungeon and led to her husband - old men : "In you, - he says - our blighters ! " An old man lies on an iron bed , sees nothing : long eyelashes and thick eyebrows eyes completely closed. He called twelve mighty warriors and began ordering them : "Take -ka iron forks , raising my eyebrows and eyelashes black , I can see that he is a bird that killed my sons? " Heroes raised his eyebrows and eyelashes pitchforks ; old man looked " Well done Vanya ! Duck is you get the courage to cope with my kids ! What am I to do with you ? "-" Thy will , whatever you want , and do , I 'll do anything . " - " Well, yes that many interpret , because children do not raise ; Single concelebrated with me better : Congress in unprecedented kingdom , in an unprecedented state and get me the queen of golden curls , and I want to marry her ."

Ivan Bykovich thought to myself : "Where you old devil , to marry , except me , young man! " And the old lady mad , imposed a stone around his neck, splashed into the water and drowned . " Here you are, Vanya , baton , - says the old man , - you go away to such a oak tree , knock him three times with batons and say : Come, ship! Come, ship! Come, ship! How will you ship to , at the same time give the oak three orders to shut it , yes do not forget to watch ! If you do not, cause me great offense . " Ivan Bykovich come to the oak , hitting him with batons countless times and ordered: "All that has come out! " There was a first ship ; Bykovich Ivan sat down in it , and shouted : " All for me " - and went on their way . After driving a bit , looked back - and saw a countless force of ships and boats ! All praise him , all thanks .

Drove up to the old man in his boat : "Father Ivan Bykovich many years you health! Take me to the comrades . " - " And what do you know how? " - " I can, sir, to eat bread ." Ivan Bykovich said : "Ugh , the gap ! I myself on it's much , but get on the ship , I 'm glad the good fellow . " Rides in a boat another old man : "Hello, Ivan Bykovich ! Take me with you . " - " And what do you know how? " - " I can, sir, wine and beer to drink ." - " The simple science ! Well climb aboard the ship . " Pulls the third old man : "Hello, Ivan Bykovich ! Take me . " - " Tell me what you know how? " - " I am , sir , I can bathe in the bath ." - "Ugh , those dashing it! Eka , think , wise men ! " Took the ship and this : and then there's the boat arrived , the old man says a fourth :" For many years, good health , Ivan Bykovich ! Take me to the comrades . " - "Yes, who are you? " - " I am , sir , astrologer ." - " Well, it's so, I do not Gorazd , and be my friend ." Took fourth , fifth asks the old man . "Dust you take it! Kuda me to go with you ? Rather affects what you know how? "-" I am , sir , I can swim ruff . " - "Well, welcome! "

Here they went for the queen golden curls . Come to an unprecedented kingdom unprecedented state ; and there has long been Swedana that Ivan will Bykovich , and the whole three months baked bread , wine, smoked beer was brewed . Ivan saw Bykovich countless carts as much bread and barrels of wine and beer , surprised and asked: " What would it mean? " -

231

"It 's all for you nagotovleno ." - "Ugh , the gap ! Yes, I do so much in a year do not eat , do not drink . " Then he remembered Ivan Bykovich about his companions and began to call : " Hey, you old men rock! Who of you has to drink - ignorant ? " Revoke Obedaylo yes Opivaylo : " We , sir ! Our business is infantile . "







Good for you !

232
