Me grandfather was yes baba , they had three sons : two reasonable , and the third a fool . First woman loved , wore 
clean , and the last zavsegda was dressed badly - dressed in black walked. They heard that the king came from the paper: 
"Who Assumed such a ship , that I could fly, for that will give the princess to marry ." Older brothers decided to go 
try happiness and blessings of elders asked his mother has equipped them in the way they slapped white palyanits1 , 
various meat and a flask burner and shown the door on their way . Seeing what a fool and began to ask myself , and to 
let him go. Mother began to persuade him , that did not go : "Where you bad ; wolves will eat you ! " But fool harping 
one : yes go go ! Baba sees that get along well with him , gave him the road black Palyanitsa and a flask of water and 
showed the door .

Duren walked , walked and met an old man. Greetings. The old man asks a goofball , " Where are you going ? " - " Yes, 
the king promised to give his daughter in order to make a flying ship ." - "Do you can make such a ship ? " - " No, not 
be able " - " So why are you going? " - " And God knows ! " - " Well, if so , - said the old man - then sit here ; rest 
together and have a snack , take out what you have in sacks . " - " Yes, there is such a shame that people show " - " 
Never mind, take out , that God gave - and then posnedaem ! " Duren untied sack - and not believe his eyes instead of 
black Palyanitsa are white bread , and various spices , served the old man . "You see , - said the old man , - as the 
god of fools

254

bestow ! Even my own mother does not love you , and here you are not deprived ... Come have a drink beforehand burner . 
" In flask namesti water found herself burner ; drank a bite and the old man says bad : " Listen to me - go into the 
forest , come to the first tree , cross yourself three times and hit a tree with an ax , and he dropped to the ground 
face down and wait until you do not wake . Then you will see in front of him ready to ship , get in it and fly where 
needful; yes the road take back any counterclaim . "

Duren thanked the old man said goodbye to him and went to the forest. Went to the first tree, did just as he was told 
three times crossed tyuknul sekiroyu2 wood , fell to the ground face down and fell asleep. After some time someone 
started to wake him . Duren woke up and saw the ship ready , did not think long , sat down in it - and the ship flew 
through the air.

Flying - flying , looking - lying down on the road man ear to damp earth fell . " Healthy , uncle ! " - " Healthy , 
nebozhe ." - " What are you doing ? " - "I hear that the other world is ." - " Sit down with me on the ship ." He did 
not want to make excuses , boarded the ship , and they flew on. Flying - flying , lo and behold - there is a person on 
one leg and the other attached to the ear . " Healthy , uncle ! What do you hop along on one leg ? "-" Yes, if I were 
another untied , so one would move the whole world stepped "-" Sit down with us ! " He sat down , and again departed . 
Flying - flying , looking - is a man with a gun , takes aim , and what - no one knows . " Healthy , uncle ! Where are 
you metish ? No birds to be seen . " - " Why, I 'll shoot close! I would shoot the animal or bird for a thousand miles 
away : that for me shooting "-" Sit down with us ! " Took this one, and they flew on.

Flying - flying , looking - man carries on his back full of fur bread. " Healthy , uncle ! Where are you going ? "-" I'm 
coming, - he says - to produce bread for lunch . " - " Yes, you have , and so full bag on his back ." - "What 's it! For 
me, this bread and once bite nothing . " - " Sit down with us ! " Overeat boarded a ship and flew away . Flying - flying 
, looking - man walks around the lake. " Healthy , uncle ! " What do you seek? "-" I'm thirsty , but I can not find 
water . " - "Yes, the whole lake in front of you : why do not you drink ? " - " Eka ! This water for one drink I will 
not . " - "So sit down with us ! " He sat down, and again departed . Flying - flying , looking - man walks in the woods 
and behind a pile of firewood . " Healthy , uncle ! Why in forest firewood talking about? "-" Yes, it's not simple 
firewood . " - " And what is that? " - "Yes, as follows: if the scatter them, so suddenly the whole army will be ". - " 
Sit down with us ! " He sat down to them, and flew away . Flying - flying , looking - man carries cul straw. " Healthy , 
uncle ! Where talking about the straw ? "-" In the village . " - "Is it in the village , there is little straw ? " - " 
Yes, it is a straw that as it may be hot in the summer, and if it is scattered - so cold infections do: snow frost yes " 
- " Sit down and you're with us ! " - " Perhaps ! " This was the last meeting , they soon came to the royal court .


King at the time was sitting at dinner : he saw a flying ship , was surprised and sent his servant to ask who arrived on 
that ship ? Servant came to the ship , sees it all men , and did not ask, and , upon returning back to the chamber , 
informed the king that the ship no Pan , and all black people . King reasoned that to give his daughter to the simple 
peasant is not necessary, and began thinking about how to get rid of such in-law . That came up with: " I will become 
him to set different challenges ." Immediately sends a bad with the order that he took him until the royal lunch is over
, tselyuschey and living water.

While the king gave this order to his servant , the first counter (the one who listened to that done in the next world ) 
heard the king's speech and told wrong. " What am I going to do now ? Yes, I for the year , and maybe his whole life 
will not find such water "-" Do not be afraid , - told him runner - I can handle for you . " Servant came and announced 
a royal decree . "Say : Bring " - said a fool , and his comrade untied his leg from his ear , and instantly ran and 
scored tselyuschey living water : " Will I - think - come back ! " - Sat down to rest under the mill and went to sleep . 
Royal dinner to end suits , but it is not as there is ; fussed all on the ship. First counter clung to the damp earth , 
listened and said, " What a ! She sleeps under the mill . " The shooter grabbed his gun , shot into the mill and those 
shot woke Swiftrunner ; runner ran and brought water for one minute , the king has not stood up from the table , and 
ordered him executed as rather impossible .


Nothing to do, it is necessary to set another task. King had to say bad , " Well, if you're so clever , so show your 
boldness : eat with his friends at one time twelve oxen roasted yes twelve sacks of bread ." The first comrade heard and 
told about the bad ones . Duren was frightened and said, " Yes, I and one of bread at a time do not eat ! " - " Do not 
be afraid , - answers to overeat - I will be a little more ! " Servant came , showed a royal decree . "Well, - said the 
fool , - let's , let's eat." Brought twelve bulls , twelve sacks so fried bread baked ; overeat all ate one . "Oh , - he 
says - is not enough! Even though a little bit b given ... " The king ordered to say bad to drunk was forty barrels of 
wine , each barrel of forty buckets. The first fellow goofball overheard those royal speech and gave him still , he was 
frightened : " Yes, I and one bucket can not have a drink at a time ." - "Fear not, - says Opivalo - I 'll drink one for 
all , yet little is ! " Poured wine forty barrels ; Opivalo came without rozdyhu drank every one ; drunk and says, " Oh, 
enough! Still used to drink . "

After a bad king ordered the crown to prepare to go to the bath to wash yes , a bath - it was a cast-iron , and ordered 
that heat the hot - hot to fool it in one minute suffocated . That Rascal hot bath ; fool went to wash, and behind him 
is a man with stubble spread under de necessary. Locked them both in the bath ; scattered straw man - and it became so 
cold that almost fool washed as in cast iron water began to freeze , he climbed up on the stove and lay there all night 
. Opened the morning bath, and a fool is alive and well on the stove is yes sings . reported

the king, he was very sorrowful, do not know how to get rid of the fool ; thought and thought , and ordered him to put a 
whole regiment of troops , but his mind on "How to get a simple peasant army ? So that he will not do ! "

As I learned about what a fool , got scared and said, " Now I completely disappeared ! I rescued you , brothers, out of 
trouble more than once , but now , apparently, nothing can be done . " - " Oh, you ! - Said a man with a bundle of 
firewood . - A really forgot about me ? Remember that I am a master at such a thing , and do not be afraid ! " Came 
servant bad royal decree announced ," If you want the princess to marry , put a whole regiment of troops tomorrow . " - 
" Dobre , zroblyu ! Only if the king and after become excuses , the rotation all his kingdom and forcibly take the 
princess . " Night goofball friend went to the field , made ​​a bundle of firewood and come to scatter in different 
directions - once was a myriad army , and cavalry and foot , and with guns . Morning and saw the king in turn frightened 
; haste sent to the bad road hats and dresses , ordered the palace to ask the princess to get married . Fool dressed in 
those expensive dresses, became so well done that and can not say ! Came to the king , married to the princess received 
a large dowry and became intelligent and quick-witted . King and queen loved him , and the princess in it doted .
