At one point, a peasant had seven sons , seven Semenov - all done better fellow , and such slobs nerabotitsy - all search 
light ! Did nothing. Father suffered - suffered with them and took to the king brings back , gives everyone in royal 
service . The king thanked him for such stalwarts and asked what they can do . "We ask themselves , Your Majesty ! " King 
summoned things first large seeds , asked: "What can you do? " - " Stealing , Your Majesty ." - "Well , I kind of person 
for the time hath need of him ." Convened a second : " What are you ? " - " I can forge all manner of precious things." - 
" Me and a man has need ." Convened the third seeds , sprashivat : " What are you able to do ? " - " I know how to shoot a 
bird in flight , your Majesty ." - " Okay ! " Sprashivat fourth : "And what are you doing ? " - " If the archer shot by 
bird dogs instead I swam after her and tyke ." - " Okay ! - Said the king . - And what do you master ? "- Asked the fifth 
. " I'll watch from a high place among all the kingdoms , and I will tell us where that will recieve ." - " Well, well ! " 
Said the sixth . "I do know the ships , only anyhow , and I will Ship ." - "Well, what are you doing znash ? " - Asked the 
seventh . "I know how to treat people ." - " Okay ! "

He sent them . Live too long , the king and even think to try one Seeds: " Come on, Simon , find out where that will 
recieve ? " Simon hid somewhere upstairs, looked around and said: " Here here's something delati there -so . " After 
collating newspapers - just ! It took a lot of time again , the king even think to marry a princess : how to get it? Do 
not know , no one to send ! And he remembered seven Semenov, called them , gave service : get this princess ; gave them 
certain number soldatstva . Semeny soon gathered all masters - pow yes blooper did Korab , sat down and swam . Then swim 
under the kingdom , where the bride - princess , one look from a high pole , said the princess now one - can steal ; any 
other forged the most expensive things , and went to the thief to sell : only survived , and once a thief stole a princess 
. Cut off the anchors, swam . Princess sees her being taken , turned white swan and flew to the ship. Sagittarius will not 
be timid , grabbed a gun, fired at and hit her in the left wing , instead of the dog ran another Simon grabbed swan on the 
sea and brought to Korab . Swan princess turned again , only left hand she was shot . Doctor have their own , once the 
hand of the princess cured .

Came to his kingdom healthy, prosperous , fired from a cannon . King heard and forgotten nothing of Semenov - Dumat : what 
kind of Korab came there ? " Go and - he says - run off to find out there." Someone ran there , went there , how soon was 
told the king of seven Seeds together with the royal bride - he was pleased with the works of Semenov , ordered to meet 
them with honor, with cannon firing , with drumbeats . Only the princess did not go for the king vzamuzh he was too old . 
He asked her and who she wants to go out ? Princess says: "For the one who stole me ! " - A thief Senka was a brave fellow 
, Princess poglyanulsya1 . King, not saying anything more , he ordered them to marry , then he wanted to calm , seeds put 
in his place , and made ​​it all Bratovo great boyars.
