Lived merchant prebogaty ; he had one daughter was good - raskhorosha ! This merchant delivers goods to different 
provinces , and he came in some kingdom to the king , and brought the red items and began to give him . Izymel him king 
is such a word: "What - he says - I own the bride will not go ? " That merchant and began to speak to this king : "I 
have a good daughter , is so good that no man thinks of , she learns ! " czar hours chasovat did not, and wrote a letter 
to his gentlemen skrichal gendarmes : "Go


you to this merchant and give this letter merchant's daughter "- and in a letter written: " Get married . "

Merchant's daughter took the letter in his hands , burst into tears and began to get out, and the maid with her , and no 
one this maid is not solved with merchant daughters, then do not unravel , both per person . Here they cleared in the 
same dress and go to the king to marry . Vexed this servant , and now and says, " Come on, take a walk on the Island " 
Come on ISLAND ; maid drugged sleepy potion merchant's daughter , cut her eyes and put it in the pocket . Then comes to 
the gendarmes and says, " Lord gendarmes ! Care of the sea , my servant . " And they answered , "We only wish you were 
still alive , and this peasant did not need ! " We came to the king now become married and began to live . Behold, the 
king himself thinks, " There must be a merchant lied to me ! This is not a merchant's daughter . Why is it so bad mind - 
mind ? At all, can not do anything ! "

He lives with her , and this merchant's daughter to recover from illness, her maid that is one reason why : she does not 
see anything , only hear. And she heard that old man stereget beast ; began to tell him : "Where are you , Grandpa , you 
are? " - " I live in a hut ." - "Take me with him ." The old man took it . She says: "Grandpa , driving a beast for you! 
" He listened to her - drove the beast . And it sends the old man in the shop: "Take you Velvet and silk in debt ." The 
old man went . From the rich no one gave in debt , and gave him a poor bench. He brought slepenkoy Velvet and silk. She 
tells him : "Grandpa , go to bed and ear do not act , and I that day , that night - all the same! " And became of velvet 
and silk sew the royal crown ; such a good embroidered crown that look - no visibility .

Early in the morning wakes slepenkaya old man and said : "Go , take to the king : do not ask , and ask only the eyes , 
and that neither of you will be there to do - do not worry ! " So he came to the palace , brought the crown. It's all 
over this sdivovalis Crown and became his trade , and the old man began to ask their eye . Who told the king that he 
asks the eye . King came out, glad Crown and began selling it, and he and his eyes asked . Well , the king swears will 
really wanted him to Ostrog plant . Only the king said no , and he ruled his case . King skrichal his gendarmes : " Go 
and have a captive soldier cut eye" And his wife , the queen , now jumped , takes the eye and gives it to the king . The 
king was delighted : " Oh, how you rescued me , tsarevnushka " - And the old man gave this eye .

The old man took it and went to the palace, went to his hut . Blind asks: " Do you Took grandfather , my eye ? " He says, " Took ". Here she took it , went to the tattoo , spat on the eye , bailiffs - and became visible .

Sends it back to the shop the old man gave him money to pay for the debt Velev silk and velvet and even ordered take velvet and gold. He took the poor merchant and merchant's daughter and brought velvet and gold. Here she sat down to sew another crown, sewed and sends this old man


a king , and she tells : " NOTHING take only eyes thyself and will ask you where you got - say, God gave me ! "

The old man came to the palace , where all sdivovalis , the first crown was good , but this is even better. And the king
said : " Whatever you give, and buy it! " - " Give me your eyes " - the old man asks . King now sends cut eye from the 
captive and wife Tsarev immediately and takes the other eye . The king was very happy , thanks to her, " Oh, I like you 
, my dear, it was saved eyes" king of the old man asks : " Where are you, old man, take this crown ? " - " God gave me !
" - Said the old man and went with Palace. Comes in a hut , gives eye slepenkoy . She went back to the tattoo , spat eye
, held it - and began to see with both eyes. Night sleeping in the hut , and then suddenly found herself in a glass 
house, and started her celebrations .

King goes to see what miracle for who the mansions built these ? Drove into the yard , and so she told him happy now 
accepts it and puts the table . Feast there , he went and called her to his guests . Returned to his house , and said 
his queen , "Oh , my dear, what to do in the house and what it girl ! Who thinks of that no , it will know! "Queen 
guessed , and said to herself : " It's true, she said, which I cut out the eyes "

Here again, the king goes to visit her , and the queen is very annoying . Came the king , feast and calling her a visit.
She began to get out of the old man and said : "Farewell ! Here's a chest of money : to the bottom do not get it - 
there will always be full. You lie down to sleep in this glass house, and you get up in his hut . So I 'm going to 
visit , I will NOT live - kill and chop up into small pieces , you Arise in the morning , do grobok , collect and bury
my pieces . " The old man began to cry about it. The same hour, the gendarmes came and put her luck. Brought her to
visit , and the queen at her and does not look - now it would be shot .

That left the queen of the yard and the gendarmes said : "As you are lucky that girl home , so immediately excised it 
in pieces and remove the meat from the heart to bring it to me! " Lucky they merchant's daughter home and talk to 
her quickly , and she really knows what they are doing hochut , and tells them: " I ​​would rather Sekite same ! " 
they excised it removed from her heart, and in samoyu Ground buried and came to the palace. Queen came out, took 
heart, roll it into an egg and put it in his pocket. The old man slept in a glass house, and stood in the hut and 
burst into tears . Cry - cry , and the case should fulfill. Made a coffin and went to look for her , found in New 
gap , gathered all the pieces, put them in a coffin and buried at home.

A king does not know any case goes to the merchant 's daughter to visit. Came to the place - no home , no girls , 
but only where it is buried , there grew over her garden . Returned to the palace and became the queen of talk : 
" I ​​went - went , and found no home, no girls , and only one garden ! " That's the queen heard about it , went 
into the yard and said the gendarmes , "Go you , posek the place garden ! " they came to the garden and began his Host, and it all turned to stone .


Do not wait to the king - you want to see the garden , and that's going to look it. Came into the garden and saw the 
boy in it - and what a pretty boy ! " It's true - he thinks - gentlemen walked to lose ." Took him to the 
palace , brought into their chamber and the queen says : "Look , my dear, and not raskvili1 it." A boy at the time 
so started shouting that there was nothing and it 's not fun : this way and that , and he yells know ! Queen pulled 
out of pockets, eggs, rolled up from the heart, and gave him , and he stopped screaming , moored around the room . 
"Ah , my dear, - said the king, the queen , - how did you comforted "

The boy fled to the courtyard, and the king after him , and he on the street - and the king of the street, he in 
the field - and the king in the field , he is in the garden - and the king of the garden. King saw this girl there 
and was very happy. Maiden and said to him : " I ​​am your bride merchant's daughter , and the queen is yours - my 
maid " So they came to the palace. Queen fell at her feet , " I'm sorry " - " And you do not forgive me , once carved 
eyes and the other Velev in small pieces cut " King and says: " the gendarmes ! Cut out the same and now the queen eyes 
and let it in the field . " Cut her eyes , tied to horses and allowed into the field. The disconnecting its horses for 
purely field. A king and queen began to live mladoj to fare well acquire . King it zavsegda admired and Golden carrier .
