In a certain kingdom , in a country , there lived a king on a smooth place , like on a tablecloth , had never had his children . Came to him a beggar. King of his attempts , "Do not , do you know that I have done it , so I had had
children? " He replies: "Gather - ka you boys so girls - semiletok that girls napryali and boys vypleli overnight seine
; those seine catch were in the sea bream zlatoperogo and give it to the queen to eat . "

That caught bream zlatoperogo , was sent to the kitchen to roast ; povarka1 cleaned , washed bream intestine dog thrown,
slop gave three mares drink itself oglodala bone and fish ate a queen . That time gave birth : the queen 's son , and
povarka son, and the son of a dog , and three mares foaled three colts . The king gave them all names : Carenko Ivan ,
Ivan and Povarenkov Suchenko Ivan.

They grow , good fellows, by leaps , not by the hour, and minute by minute , grew large, and sends Suchenko Ivan Ivan Tsarevich to the king , " Go and ask them to let us ride the king of the three horses that brought Kobyli , yes go walk
through the city - go . " Let the king , they posedlali horses , left the city and began to talk among themselves : "
What we have to live the king's father , better go to foreign lands ! " That they took bought iron , made ​​themselves
at mace - each club at nine pounds , and herded horses.

A little later says Ivan Suchenko : "How can we , my friends, is the way to go, when we do not have any older or younger
? It is necessary to do so, so we had an older brother . " Carenko said that my father put a senior and Suchenko - its
that we should try to force - by the arrow cast. Throw arrows one after another first Carenko Ivan for Tsarenkov
Povarenkov for Povarenkov Suchenko . Not go away , not close - is already Tsarenkov hand, fell slightly out of hand
Povarenkova and Suchenkovoy nowhere to be seen ! Going forward all along yes - and drove to distant lands tridesyatom
kingdom in inshee state - already there is Suchenkova arrow.

Then decided to do : be Carenko younger brother , Povarenkov - podstarshy and Suchenko - the naistarshy and embarked
again on their way . Look - steppe stretches before them , on the steppes broken tent , the tent horse stands yaruyu
wheat eats, drinks some well-fed honey . Suchenko sends Ivan Ivan Tsarevich , "Come to find out who in the tent ? " Here

Carenko comes into the tent , and there on the bed White Polyanin lies . And he struck his pinky White Polyanin forehead
- Carenko fell, so he took it and threw it under the bed . Ivan sends Suchenko Povarenkov ; Polyanin White and this hit

the little finger on his forehead and threw it under a bed . Suchenko waited, waited , waited not ; resorted thither
himself as White Polyanina strike again - it under the brow and eyes ! After it passed out of the tent , a fresh breeze
smelled White Polyanin alive and asks : "Do not kill me! Take over of the youngest brother ! " Ivan Suchenko pardoned
him .

Here all four brothers posedlali their horses and rode forests groves yes , long or short it went - standing in front of
them a house with two floors below the Golden Roof. We went into this house - clean everywhere , everywhere cleaned
drinks naedkov enough stocked , and there is no one living people , thought and thought and put while staying here - to
while away the days . In the morning the three brothers went to hunt , and Prince Ivan left the house to look after the
farm . He Navara fry for dinner stuff , sat on the bench yes pipe smokes . Suddenly rides old grandfather in a mortar,
pestle propped under it koveta2 seven fathoms litas , and begging. Carenko gives him a whole loaf ; grandfather for
bread, for it is taken in a stupa hook yes , sense - sense , took him from the back lane to his shoulders , took
polovoyu3 rubbed and under the floor ... threw the brothers returned from hunting, ask Tsarenkov : " no one you did not
have ? " - " I did not see , do not you who? " - " no, we have not seen ! "

The next day the house was Ivan Povarenkov , and those on the hunt went. Nawar dinner , sat on a bench and smoking a
pipe - already goes grandfather in a mortar, pestle propped under it Coveta seven fathoms litas , and begging. Povarenk
ov gives him a loaf of bread , and he did not for a loaf , and for him, yes hook in a stupa , sense - sense , skinned up
to the shoulders, but sexually rubbed under the floor ... threw the brothers returned from hunting and asked: " No one
you do not was that? "-" No , no ! And did you see that? "-" No, we have not seen ! "

On the third day the house was White Polyanin . Nawar dinner , sat on a bench and smoking a pipe - already goes
grandfather in a mortar, pestle propped under it Coveta seven fathoms litas , and begging. White Polyanin gives him a
loaf , he did not for a loaf , and for him, yes hook in a stupa , sense - sense , skinned up to the shoulders, but
sexually rubbed under the floor ... threw the brothers arrived from the hunt : "You did not see anyone ? "-" No , no ,
do not you? "-" and we identity ! "

On the fourth day Ivan Suchenko stayed home . Nawar dinner , sat on a bench and smoking a pipe - as much again goes old
grandfather in a mortar, pestle propped under it Coveta seven fathoms litas , and begging. Suchenko gives him a loaf of
bread , and he did not for a loaf , and for him, yes hook in a stupa - a stupa and broke. Ivan Suchenko grandfather
grabbed his head , brought up willow stump , stump split in two grandfathers beard yes thrust into a crevice , and
myself - into the chamber . That ride his brothers , talking among themselves .


" That , my friends , you do not happen ? - Asks Carenko . - I've got a shirt so completely to the body prisohla "-"
Well, we got ! To the back dotorknutsya impossible. Cursed grandfather ! True, he Suchenku ripped . " Came home : "What
Suchenko Ivan , one you did not have ? " - " There was one nahaba4 , so I gave him his own way asked " - " What did you
do to him? " - " Stump split beard thrust yes ." - " Come and see ! " Grandfather came to watch , and it had vanished !
How did it in a vise and began to beat and tear still eversion entire stump with roots and took with him to the light ,
and from the world he came to his house under the Golden Roof.

Brothers followed in his footsteps , they walked and walked - mountain stands : in that mountain lyada5 ; took it opened
, the rope was tied to a rock and dropped into the hole , the removed rock bottom, pulled it back and tied to a rope
Ivan Suchenka . Suchenko says : " After three days, as the rope shake - now vytyagayte me ! " That lowered him to the
light . He remembered the princesses that pokrali to the light three serpent : "I will go their Suka ! " 6

Shel- going - worth two-storey house , the girl came out . "What , a Russian man , colo our yard go? " - " What are you 
in demand? Let me advance water - rinse eyes feed me , Sing , yes and then ask . " She brought him water , fed , watered
and led to the princess . "Hello, beautiful princess ! " - " Hello, my good fellow ! What came here ? "-" For thee I 
want to fight with your husband . " - " Oh, do not you otymesh me! My husband dyuzhe strong, with six heads "-" and I 
with the sole , yes I will fight , I will God ! " Princess hid his door - already flying serpent . "Ugh , Russian bone 
stink ! " - " You, my dear , flew in Russia , Russian napahal bones ! " 7 - says princess takes him to dinner , and she 
sighed . "What , dove so hard sigh ? " - " How I sigh ! Fourth year for you, has not seen neither father nor mother. 
Well, if one of my relatives came here yes , what would you do to him ? "-" What to do? Peel yes walked with him . " 
Those speech goes behind the doors of Ivan Suchenko . "A Suchenko ! Hello , I came for : to fight or to tolerate ? "-" 
Let's fight ! Dmi8 tochok ! " 9 serpent breathed - he became a cast iron with silver tochok prugami and Suchenko blew - 
it prugami silver with gold . He struck and killed the serpent times before his death in ashes perepalil on wind 
perepustil ; princess gave him a ring , he took it and went on.

Shel- go - again two-storey house ; girl came to meet him and asked: " What are you , a Russian man , colo our yard go? 
" - " What are you in demand? Give me some water beforehand - eye wash , feed , watered , and then ask yes ! " Here she 
brought him water , fed him , watered and princess spent . "Why have you come? " - Said the princess . "For thee I want 
to fight with your husband ." - "Where are you at war with



my husband ! My husband dyuzhe strong, with nine heads "-" and I with the sole , yes I will fight with him , as God help
me ! " Princess hid guest at the door - already flying serpent . "Ugh , how Russian bone stink ! " - " Did you fly over 
Russia , Russian napahal bones " - says the princess became fed dinner and sighed . " What are you , darling , are you 
sighing ? " - " How I sigh when I neither father nor mother can not see. What would you do if one of my relatives came 
here ? "-" Yes Peel walked with him . " Ivan Suchenko out from behind the door . " A Suchenko ! Hello, - says the 
serpent . - Why did you come here : to fight or to tolerate ? "-" Let us fight ! Dmitri tochok ! " Serpent blew - it was
the cast iron with silver tochok prugami10 and Ivan blew Suchenko - he prugami silver with gold , he struck and killed 
the snake to death in perepalil ash on the wind perepustil . The princess gave him a ring and he took it and went on.

Shel- go - again the same house with two floors . Came out to meet the girl , " What do Russian people , colo our yard 
go? " - " You let the water before - eye wash , feed , watered , and then ask yes ! " She brought him water , fed , 
watered and princess spent . "Hello, Ivan Suchenko ! Why are you here ? "-" For thee I want you to take away from the 
snake . " - "Where do you take ! My husband dyuzhe strong, with twelve heads "-" and I with the sole , and its rotation 
, if God help you! " Enters into the chamber, and then twelve- serpent dryhnet11 : sigh as the serpent , so the entire 
ceiling hodonom12 comes ! And his mace in sorokapudovaya kutku13 worth . Ivan Suchenko his mace in kutok set and took 
the serpents , swung like a serpent strike - buzz went around the yard ! With house roof blew off ! Ivan killed Suchenko 
twelve- serpent perepalil to ashes , the wind perepustil . Princess gives him a ring and says, " Let's live with me ! " 
And he calls her with him . "How can I give up their wealth ? " She took all his wealth in golden egg turned aside and 
gave Ivan Suchenku , he put it in his pocket and egg together with her went back to her sisters. Podstarshaya princess 
turned aside his wealth in silver egg , and the minor - in copper , and gave him a train .



Four of them have come to burrow ; Ivan Suchenko tied less princess and shook the rope . "Like you, - he says - is 
pulled up , then poklich : Carenko ! He will answer : ha ! And you say I'm yours ! " After another princess tied again 
and shook the rope , so pulled up : " As you pulled out , then poklich : Povarenkov ! He will answer : ha ! And you say 
I'm yours ! " Became the third to tie the rope to the princess and tells her : " How you pulled , you shut up - my will! 

" Stretched this princess , she is silent ; 's White Polyanin angry and began to pull as Ivan Suchenko took yes and cut 
the rope .

Suchenko fell , got up and went to the old grandfather. His grandfather was tortured : "What have you come? " - " Beat ! 
" Began to fight ; beat - beat , tired and rushed to the water. Santa made ​​a mistake , gave Suchenku strong drink of 
water , and he just drank . Ivan became Suchenko osilivat ; grandfather and he says:



"Do not seek me! Take yourself in the cellar flint Kresalo yes three varieties wool - useful in trouble . " Ivan 
Suchenko took a flint, and three varieties Kresalo wool ; fire and knocked pripalil gray wool - it runs until gray horse 
, hooves shmatya14 fly mouth bursting pairs of ears pillar of smoke . " How much will it take until you got me on that 
light vynesesh ? " - " And as much as you people to acquire lunch ! " Suchenko pripalil crow wool - black horse runs , 
hooves SHMATOV fly mouth bursting pairs , smoke coming out of his ears . "Soon you me miles to the light vynesesh ? " - 
" People do not have time for lunch ! " Pripalil a red wool - running red horse , hooves SHMATOV fly mouth bursting 
pairs of ears smoke coming . "Soon you me miles to the light vynesesh ? " - " Spit in no time ! " He sat on that horse 
and found himself on his own land .


Comes to Zolotar . "I - he says - will be your assistant ! " Smaller orders Zolotar princess : " Do me a gold ring for 
the wedding ! " He undertook the work , and Ivan Suchenko says, " Wait, I 'll ring you and you give me a bag of nuts 
give . " Goldsmith brought him a bag of nuts ; Suchenko Ivan ate nuts , gold hammer broke , took tsarevnino ring , 
cleaned and put the host. Princess comes in the ring on Saturday , looked , "Oh, what a beautiful ring ! I gave Ivan 
Suchenku is , yes it is not in this world! " And Requests Zolotar to his wedding. The next day the Goldsmith went to the 
wedding , and Ivan Suchenko stayed at home , pripalil gray wool - it runs until gray horse. "What do I seek? " - " It is
necessary to disrupt vesilnom15 house pipe " - " Sit on me , look in the left ear , look out to the right ! " He looked 
to the left ear , and looked to the right - and became a fellow that no tale to tell , nor pen to write. Jumped and took
the pipe from the house , then all cried , frightened , wedding parted .

Another princess brought gold ring to make requests . Ivan says Suchenko Zolotar : "Give me two bags of nuts , I'll ring
will do ." - "Well ? Do it . " Suchenko ate nuts , gold hammer broke , took tsarevnino ring , cleaned and cleared . The
princess saw the ring , "Oh, what a glorious ! I gave exactly the Suchenku Ivan , yes it is now not in this world! "
Took the ring and calls Zolotar the wedding. He went to the wedding , and Ivan Suchenko pripalil crow wool - black horse
runs . "What do you demand of me ? " - "You have to rip the roof vesilnogo home ." - "Sit down at me, a look to the left
ear , the right to look out ! " He looked to the left ear , looked to the right - has become a beautiful young man !
Horse carried him so briskly that tore off the roof of the house , and all cried out , they began to shoot the horse ,
but do not hit ; wedding parted again .

That's eldest princess asks that she did ring . " I did not want - he says - in the White Polyanina married go, yes , it
is seen as God judged ! " Ivan Suchenko Zolotar says , "Give me three bags of nuts , I do you a ring ." Again ate nuts ,
gold hammer broke , took

tsarevnino ring , cleaned and cleared . Saturday comes the princess behind the ring , looked , "Oh, what a glorious ring
! Oh my God ! Where did you get this ring ? I gave exactly what she loved . " And asks Zolotar : " Come back tomorrow
for the wedding to me! "


The next day the Goldsmith went to the wedding , and Ivan Suchenko stayed at home , pripalil redhead sherstinu - running
red horse . "What do you demand of me ? " - " Take me as you want, but do not we go ahead - the ceiling on vesilnom
house torn, but to go back - White Polyanina take by the forelock " - " Sit down at me, a look to the left ear , in Look
out right ! " red horse carried him briskly , briskly . On my way there - Suchenko ceiling with house removed , and on
my way back - White Polyanina grabbed by the forelock , rose high into the air and threw him to the ground : White
Polyanin crashed into pieces . And Ivan Suchenko goes down , hug, kiss , with his bride , Prince Ivan and Povarenkov him
happy , all of them were married to a beautiful princess and began to live together rich and happy .

footnotes


Footnote on page 236

1 cook .

Footnote on page 237

2 Coveta - platform in the huts , replacing beds.

3 Chaff ( Ed.).

Footnote on page 238

4 Cheeky , unpleasant guest .

5 Transverse door.

Search 6 .

7 That is the spirit of the Russian mustered ; smell - the smell of winnowing and compare with the words and spirit of the blow .

8 Dmitriev - dui blown ( Ed.).

9 The current prominence.

Footnote on page 239

10 Headband ( Ed.).

Sleeps 11 .

12 Hodenem .

13 In the corner .

Footnote on page 240

14 Large chunks of dirt , earth.

15 Honeymoon .
