Once there was an old lady , princess , her grown son yes daughter - such portly , so good . Against the grain they were 
wicked witch , " as if their lime yes to bring blessing ? " - She thought and came up with ; chipped a fox came to their 
mother and said: " Kumushka - darling ! Here you perstenek , put his finger on your son, with him will he be rich and 
torovat only be rented and not married that girl, who is my ring will stick! " Old woman believed delighted and dying 
punished for his son to take his wife , whose ring fit .

Time goes by , and my son is growing. Grew up and began to look for a bride , like one , the other will attract and Pit 
ring - or a little, or large , and neither one nor the other will not do. - Traveled and traveled through the villages 
and towns, the girls went through all the red , and the restriction does not find , I came home and thought about it. 
"What are you , brother, grief ? " - Asks his sister . He revealed to her his desolate position , told her grief . " 
What's a tricky perstenek ? - Says Sister . - Let me Pit . " Vzdela on her finger - ring obvilos , shone had on hand for 
her deliberately poured . "Oh , sister , you are my betrothed , will you give me a wife " - " What are you , brother! 
Remember God , remember sin miles marry sisters ? " But the brother would not listen , danced with joy and told 
sbiraetsya the crown . She burst into bitter tears , came out of the bright room , sat on the doorstep and the river- 
the river flows !

Go past the old lady passers ; zazvali their feed - water . They ask : what for her grief, for that mountain? There was 
nothing to hide , told them everything . "Well, did you not cry , do not cry , and we obey : make four dolls , seedlings 
at the four corners ; brother will be calling the aisle - go, would be to call in a bright room - do not rush . Trust in 
God , goodbye . " Grandmother left. Brother and sister got married , went to the room, and said , "Sister Catherine , 
come on quilts ! " She replies: "Now , brother, take off the earrings ." A pupa in the four corners zakukovali :

Cook , Prince Daniel !
Cook says !
Cook , his sister,
Cook for yourself takes .
Cook stepped aside land
Cook , failure, sister!

Earth became parted sister to fall . Brother yells , "Sister Catherine , come on quilts " - " Now , brother, untie the 
belt ." Pupae kukuyut :

Cook , Prince Daniel !
Cook says !
Cook , his sister,

150

Cook for yourself takes .
Cook stepped aside land .
Cook , failure, sister!

Already one head remains visible. Brother calls again , "Sister Catherine , come on quilts " - " Now , brother, take off 
shoes ." Kukuyut pupae , and she disappeared underground.

Brother calls yet , calling louder - no! Angry , rushed , slapped in the door - the door flew off and looked in all directions - sister is gone , and in the corners sit alone dolls yes kukuyut Know yourself : " Make way , earth , failure, sister! " He grabbed an ax and chopped their heads off tossed into the furnace.

A sister was - was under the earth, see : Cost hut on chicken legs , worth - is inverted . "Hut , hut ! Be you in the 
old way , the forest backwards, to me before . " Hut began , the door opened . In the hut sits girl red , embroider 
pants with silver and gold . Vstrela guest tenderly , sighed and said: " Darling , sestrushechka ! I heartily glad you 
and you and privechaya prigolublyu until no mother , and fly , and then the trouble you and to me it is my witch! " 
Scared of guest speeches , and nowhere to go, the village with the hostess for the fly ; sew yes talking. Long or short 
it , the hostess knew the time , knew when his mother arrives , resort guests in a needle , laid in the whisk , put in a 
corner . Only she tidied her witch Shasta in the door : "My daughter is good, my daughter is comely ! Russ- bone smells 
"-" Mother ma'am ! Yes passersby stopped going to drink some water . " - Well you did not leave them ? " -" Old , dear , 
not because of your teeth . " - "Go look - the courtyard of the greeter , the yard would not let anyone , and I lifted 
lytki , go back to razdobytki ." Gone ; girls sat in his pants, sewed , talked and laughed .

Witch flew ; scent - scent the hut : "My daughter is good, my daughter is comely ! Russ- bone smells "-" That's just old 
men went to warm hands , left , not left . " Witch was hungry , scolded daughter and again flew away . Served in the 
guest Venichka . Rather began doshivat pants , and sew, and make haste , and conspiring how to get away from trouble ; 
dashing away from witches ? Do not have time to exchange glances , pereshepnutsya , and she said to him in the door, 
easy to trace , Zapopan surprise : "My daughter is good, my daughter is comely ! Russ- bone smells "-" But , my dear, 
you wait for the fair maiden . " Red girl looked at the old lady fainted ! Before her stood Baba Yaga leg bone , nose 
rooted in the ceiling . "My daughter is good, my daughter is comely ! Marsh oven hot - hot! "Hurt wood and oak and maple 
, kindled a fire , the flames of the furnace has .

The witch took a shovel wide , were guests regale : " Sit down , beauty, on a shovel ." Beautiful village. Witch moved 
her in the mouth , and she puts one foot in the oven and bake for another . "What are you , girl, do not know how to sit 
, sit well! " Recovered , village well , a witch in her mouth , and she was one foot in the oven and bake for another . 
Ozlilas witch

151

snatched it back. " Shalish , shalish , molodushka ! Sit still , that's it ; look at me ! " Slap on the shovel itself , legs stretched out , and the girls in her haste oven planted, flaps closed, decks filled up , slipped and tarred , and themselves began to run , took with him an embroidered pants , brush and comb .

Ran - ran, looking back , and the villain tear , saw them and whistles : " Guy , guy, guy, you're in there somewhere ! " What to do? Threw brush - grew thick - thick cane : I do not crawl . Witch disbanded claws proschipala track catches up close ... Where to go ? Threw a comb - Dubrova grew dark - dark : fly will not fly . Witch sharpened teeth , began to work ; neither enough , the tree rooted out! Poshvyrivaet on all sides , cleared the track and catching up again ... that's close! Run-run and nowhere to run , exhausted ! Cast your fly zlatoshveynuyu - sea spilled wide, deep , fire , witch climbed high, wanted to fly , fell into the fire and burned .

There were two girls , homeless dove ; got to go, but where ? - Do not know . Sat down to rest . Here is a man 
approached them and asked: Who are they? and the master reported that in his possession two birds sitting not stray , 
and daubed two beauties - one to one kinship and dorodstvom , eyebrow eyebrow , eye to eye , and one of them should be 
your sister , and that - you can not guess . Gentleman went to look , zazvali them to yourself . Sees - his sister here 
, the servant did not lie , but that - he did not know , she is angry - no impact , what to do? " But what , sir ! I 
pour mutton bubble blood , put it under his arm , talk with gostmi , and I will come and you hvachu knife in the ribs , 
pour the blood sister shows up ! " - " Good ! " Pleases - made ​​: master servant sufficed in the side, blood spurted 
brother fell sister rushed to embrace him , and crying , and prichityvaet : " My darling , my darling ! " and brother 
jumped neither burnt nor ill, embraced his sister and gave her a good man , and he married her girlfriend, and which 
perstenek hit the handle, and lived happily ever after all .
