They used to live grandfather Yes Baba , widowed grandfather and married another wife, and his first wife remained in his girl. Wicked stepmother did not like her , beat her and thought, as though all of lime. Once my father went somewhere, and stepmother said the girl , " Come to my aunt , my sister , ask her for a needle and thread - you sew a shirt ." And this was the aunt Baba Yaga leg bone .

That girl was not stupid , but went first to his aunt . "Hello , Auntie ! " - " Hello, darling ! Why did you come ? "-" Mother sent her sister to ask for a needle and thread - sew me a shirt . " That and it teaches : "There you plemyanushka will birch eye lash - do it with ribbon Bandage , there you will gate creak and slam - you vile of butter under their heels , whatever your dog will tear - you throw them a loaf , there you cat eyes will tear up - you give him a ham . " Girl went behold goes, goes and come.

Cost hut , and in it sits the Baba Yaga leg bone and weaves . "Hello , Auntie ! " - " Hello, darling " - " I sent my mother to ask you for a needle and thread - sew me a shirt ." - "Well , sit down as long as the weave ." That girl sat at krosna1 and Baba Yaga went out and tells his worker , "Go , wash istopit bath niece yes yes see , well , I want her to have breakfast ." Girl sitting neither alive nor dead , all terrified , and she asks a worker " Rodimaya mine! You're not so much firewood ignited much water pour , sieve the water carrier "- and gave her a handkerchief .

Baba Yaga waiting ; she came to the window and asks, " Are you weaving , plemyanushka , art weaving , my dear ? " - " WEAVE , auntie, weave , honey ! " Baba Yaga and walked away, and the girl gave the cat ham and asks: " is it possible to somehow go out of here ? "-" Here's a comb and a towel - said the cat - and take their refuge , for you shall chase baba Yaga , you incline your ear to the ground and how zaslyshish it close , come first towel - make wide - wide river , and if w baba Yaga go across the river and will be catching up with you, you will again give ear to the ground and as you hear that she's close , throw scallop - Made - dense thick forest , through it she did not make the way ! "

126

Baba Yaga . Splint from the collection of D. Rovinsky number 37

Baba Yaga . Splint from the collection of D. Rovinsky number 37

The girl took the towel and comb and ran , the dog would tear her - she threw them a loaf , and they missed it , the gates would slam - she poured them under the heels of butter , and they missed it , her eyes like birch quilt - she tied it with ribbon , and she missed it . The cat sat in Krosno and weaves : not so much weave as confused . Baba Yaga went to the window and asks, " Are you weaving , plemyanushka , art weaving , my dear ? " - " WEAVE , aunt , weave , honey ! " - Corresponds roughly cat.

Baba Yaga rushed into the hut , she saw that the girl was gone, and let's beat and scold the cat , why not scratched the girl eyes . " I told you how I serve, - said the cat - you did not give me a bone , and she gave me a ham ." Baba Yaga pounced on dogs at the gate , on the birch tree and a worker , let's all bash and scold . Dogs say to her: " We serve you as you burnt crust we did not quit , and she gave us a loaf ." Gates said : "We as you serve, you give us a little water under the heels does not mean, but she poured us of butter ." Birch says: " I ​​told you how I serve , you do not thread tied , she had me tied ribbon ."

127

A worker said: "I serve you as you gave me no cloth , and she gave me a handkerchief ."

Baba Yaga leg bone haste sat on the stupa pusher chases , broom sweeps track and set off in pursuit of the girl . That girl put her ear to the ground and heard that Baba Yaga chases , and so close , went and threw the towel: the river became so wide - wide ! Baba Yaga came to the river and gritted his teeth in anger , went home , took their oxen and secured to the river ; bulls drank the whole river clean. Baba Yaga set off again in pursuit. The girl put her ear to the ground and heard that Baba Yaga close threw scallop : a dense forest became so scary! Baba Yaga began to chew , but no matter how tried - could not chew and gate back .

A grandfather had already arrived home and asked: "Where is my daughter ? " - " She went to my aunt ," - says stepmother . A little later and the girl ran home . " Where have you been ? " - Asks the father . "Oh , sir ! - She says. - So and so - my mother sent me to my aunt to ask for a needle with thread - sew me a shirt , and his aunt , Baba Yaga , I wanted to eat . " - "How you gone , my daughter ? " So and so - says the girl. Grandfather had learned all this , angry at his wife and shooting her , and he went to live with her daughter so happily ever after , and I was there, honey - beer drinking : mustache flowed into his mouth not horrible .
footnotes
