You know that there are people in the world and good, there are worse, there are those who do not fear God, 
my brother is not ashamed: among these could be included KroshechkaKhavroshechka. She was left as a small orphan; 
these people  took her, fed her, and into the godly world they did not let her go for she had to toil every day
and delivery and clean up and to be responsible for everything.

The lady had three daughters. The eldest was called OneEye, the middle one was called TwoEye, and the little 
one was called ThreeEye. They knew the gates and could look on the street, but Kroshechka-Havroshechka had 
to work for them, sow for them, spin and weave for them. For all this, a good word was never heard. That just
hurts.

One day it happened that KroshechkaKhavroshechka was in a field and she embraced a poor cow about the neck
and told the cow her dream of how she would like to live ever after.

O CowMother! I was beaten, berated, starved, and told not to cry. For tomorrow, I have to spin, weave, and
blanch. 

The cow answered to her:


And there were her three daughters great hostess . The eldest was called One-eye , medium - Two-eye , and 
smaller - Three-eye , but they only knew the gate to sit on the street look and Kroshechka-Havroshechka 
they worked , they sewed for them and spun and wove , and good word never heard . That's just sick - poke 
yes there is someone to push a hi yes there is no one to give a taste !

Will used to Kroshechka - Havroshechka field , embrace your ryabuyu cow lie to her neck and tells how it hard 
to live happily ever after :

" The cow -mother ! Beat me , berate , bread is not given, told to not cry . By tomorrow gave five pounds 
napryast , weave , blanch in tube ride . " And the cow to her: "Red girl ! Climbed me in one ear , and climbed
into another - it will work. " So it came to pass. Red girl come out from the tab - everything is ready : and 
weave , and whitewashed , and ride . Classifies stepmother , she will have a look , pokryahtit , hide in the 
trunk , and she will ask more work . Havroshechka will come back to the cow in one ear fit , and come out in 
another gotovenkoe will bring.

Marvels old woman calls One-eye : "My daughter is good, my daughter is comely ! Doglyadis who helps the 
fatherless : and weaves and spins and rolls the pipe ? " One-eye went with an orphan in the woods , went with her ​​
in the field ; forgotten Matushkino orders, raspeklas the sun , sprawled on Travushka ; 

Havroshechka as saying: "Go to sleep, eye , sleep , eye ! " Sneak fell asleep while sleeping One-eye , the cow 
and weave and whitewashed . Stepmother did not have searched it , sent Dvuglazku . This , too, the sun and 
raspeklas Travushka sprawling , maternino forgotten his command and closed her eyes , and lulls Havroshechka : 
"Sleep , eye , sleep , another one! " The cow weave , whitewashed , to ride the pipe , and two eye still asleep .

The old woman was angry , on the third day sent Three-eye and orphan gave more work . And Three-eye as her older 
sisters , jumped , jumped and fell Travushka . Havroshechka sings: " Sleep, eye , sleep , and the other " - and 
forgot about the third . Two eyes fell asleep , and the third looks and sees all - as fair maiden in one ear , 
climbed , climbed into another and finished canvases picked . All that saw Three-eye mother told ; old woman was 
glad the next day went to her husband : " Cut ryabuyu cow ! " So - old man syak : "What are you , wife, whether 
in the mind ? Young cow , good ! " Slash , and more! Sharpened knife ...

Havroshechka ran to the cow , " the cow -mother ! You want to cut . " - " And you, fair maiden , do not eat my 
meat, my bones gather , tie it in a handkerchief , in the garden of their seedlings and never let me forget 
every morning with water watered them ." Havroshechka did everything that the cow bequeathed ; hunger starved 
meat in her mouth did not, bone every day in the garden watering and apple tree grown from them , so what - 
my God ! Apples hanging on her bulk , noise listvitsy gold , silver twigs bend ; whoever is going past - stay 
who passes close - he admires .

It happened again - the girls walked through the garden , at the time went by the field master - rich, with 
curly , very young . Saw apples , zatrogal girls " Maid -beauties ! - He says. - Which one of you will hand 
me an apple , she will marry me . " And rushed three sisters to one another in front of apple tree . And apples ,
then hung low , were under the hands , and then suddenly went sky-high , far above the heads of steel. Sister 
wanted to knock them - leaves eyes sleep , wanted to rip - twigs braids unwinds ; neither fought nor rushed - 
tattered handle and could not get it . Came Havroshechka , Incline and twigs , and apples dipped . Master 
married her , and she stood in the good fare , dashing never knew .
