Soldier drove long border; 

served due time he received a clean resigned and went home. 

He walked through many lands, through different states; 

comes in one capital, and stops at the home of a poor old woman . Began to question her:
"How are you, baushka, in the state - everything is great?" 

-"And 

- and, soldier! 

Our king has a beautiful daughter, Princess Martha, wooed for her outlandish prince, 
the princess did not want him to go, and he let loose at her evil spirits. 

That's really the third year nemozhet! 

Does not give her the evil spirit at night Spock ; 

heart beats and shouts without memory ... I do what the king does not: 

and sorcerers and healers led - no saved!"

Listened to a soldier and thinks to himself: 

"Let go and try my luck, maybe it will deliver the princess! 

King of anything on the road will welcome." 

Took his coat, dusted with chalk buttons, and put on a march to the palace. 

Saw his court servants, learned what goes grabbed by the arm and led to the king himself. 

"Hello, Service! 

What good do you think?" - 

Said the king. 

"Good morning, Your Majesty! 

I heard that you have been ill Marfa princess, 

I can cure it." - 

"Well , my boy ! 

Koli cure , I'll head to toe in gold will shower." 

- "Just tell them , Your Majesty, give me everything you 'll require ." 

- "Say what you want?" 

- "Yes, that give me a measure of iron bullets measure walnuts pound of candles and two decks of cards 
so I izladte iron rod, cast iron Scratchy about five teeth yes iron likeness of a man with springs ." 

- "Well, well, by tomorrow everything will be ready."

Here are produced, it is necessary; soldiers locked in the palace all windows 
and doors tightly crossed himself and their Orthodox cross, only one door left unlocked
and became beside her on the clock; 

room lit candles on the table, put the card and into the pockets of iron poured bullets yes Walnut nuts. 

Justices and waits. Suddenly flew into the midnight unclean spirit wherever he finds itself - can not enter! 

Summer flew round the palace and saw finally open door; 

chipped person and wants to enter. 

"Who goes there?" 

- Called soldiers." 

Let me go, soldier! 

I court lackey." 

- "Where are you, Chaldean mug still dragged myself?" 

- "And where was there is now gone! Let me chew nuts "

- "a lot of you here, the Chaldeans!

Nut all dressed himself nothing left." 

- "Give me, please!" 

- "Well, take it!" 

- And gives it a shot.

Hell took a bullet mouth, pressed - pressed teeth in her crumpled cake and chew - not gnawed. 

While he was busy with cast bullets, soldiers with twenty gnawed nuts yes ate. 

"Hey, soldier, - says hell - you have strong teeth" 

- "Not bad I see you! 

- Replied the soldier. 

- After twenty-five years I have served the king, over breadcrumbs blunted teeth, and you'd looked, 
 what with young years I was "
 
 - "Come on, soldier, play cards." 
 
 - "And on that play, we become ?" 
 
 - "Known - on the money." 
 
 - "Oh , Chaldean mug! 
 
 Well, what the soldier money? 
 
 He just salary - three night gets money, and it is necessary and soaps, polishes, 
 and chalk, glue and buy and go to the sauna. 
 
 Want - to clicks play?"
 
 - "Perhaps!" 
 
 Began to play clicks. 
 
 Damn enough of a soldier three clicks. 
 
 "Come on, - he says - I will beat" 
 
 
 - "Catch up to ten, and then beat, with three clicks nothing to dirty hands" 
 
 - "Okay! "Again began to play, a soldier came hlyust1 Crusade, and he caught up to ten clicks unclean." 
 
 Well, - says hell - 
 
 put your forehead, I 'll show you how with our brother clicks on play! 
 
 By contract the soldier! And friend and foe zakazhesh! ..."


Damn begged requested that soldiers beat him easier. 

"That's it! 

With you, the Chaldeans, only contact, he is not happy will, as a matter of the calculation 

- so now and take time off! And I in no way can not spare you, and I - 

soldiers and gave oath zavsegda act of faith - righteousness." 

- "Take , soldier , money" 

- "And what do I want your money? 

I played the clicks - clicks and pay. 

Is this: I've got the younger brother, let's go to him 

- he will strike you my clicks quieter, but if thou wilt, let myself become a beat!"

- "No , soldier , lead to better youngest brother."

Soldiers led to the iron unclean person touched the spring but how the hell clicks on the forehead 

- that azhno flew to another wall, a soldier grabbed his arm, 

"Stop! 

Nine more clicks for you." 

Touched another spring time so much so cut that features rolled head over heels so little wall is not broke! 

And the third time was thrown right out the window unclean, he kicked frame, jumped out, and pricked up skiing. 

"Remember, damn - shouts of soldiers - for seven more clicks you left!" 

And God knows what im run, already heels ass gets. 

The next morning the king asks Martha - princess: 

"Well - what a night spent?" 

- "Quietly, the emperor's father!"

On another night, Satan had sent to the palace of a feature; 

you see, so they went to frighten torture princess turns. 

And this has got to nuts! 

At thirteen nights have visited the soldier in thirteen unclean alteration, 
 and all power had tight! 
 
None other time does not want to go. 

"Well, granddaughter - tells them grandfather Satan - I'll go now."

Satan came to the palace and talk to the soldier Well, then, another fifth to tenth, began to play cards; 

soldiers beat him and led to less brother clicks treat. 

Led, suppressed spring younger brother Satan iron hands clasped so tightly tak-taki he nor returned 
 can not move forward. 
 
The soldier grabbed the iron rod and began to whip; 

has Satan and repeating: 

"Here's to play cards! 

Here's Princess Martha - torment!" 

Iskhlestal iron rod and took Scratchy rasp Satan roars good mate, and the soldier pulls Know yourself, 
and so it Donja that as he escaped - fled without looking back! 

Returned to his swamp, moaning , "Oh, granddaughter, little soldier was killed to death " 

- "That's right, Grandpa !You see how tricky it is! 

That's really two weeks, as I was in the palace, and all the head is splitting! 

Yes, thank you, that does not beat itself , and younger brother made!"

That became devils to figure out how to survive them from the palace of the soldier. 

Thought - thought and decided to pay off gold. 

Ran to the soldier all time, he saw, he was afraid, and cried with a loud voice, 

"Hey, brother, go here soon, debtors came clicks should give." 

- "Come, come ,soldier! 

We came to talk to you about the case, how much you want us to take the gold 

- just come out of the palace "

- "No! What I gold! 

Oh if you want to serve me, so all in polezayte knapsack, 

I heard that the devil hurt tricky - even in the slot, and then you want! 

That amounts do - the right word, leave the palace! 

"Devils rejoiced:" 

Well, soldier, open your backpack." 

Soldiers opened; 

they climbed back to a man, lay on top of Satan." 

Stack denser - said the soldier, - that it was possible to fasten all the buckles." 

- "Button, not your sorrow!" 

- "Happiness to you , if Button! And not be angry, for anything out of the palace will not go ! "

Here the soldiers took all buttoned satchel buckle, cross it, put on his and went to the king, 

"Your Majesty! 

Order produce thirty iron hammers, each hammer three pounds."

The king gave the order, and now produced thirty hammers. 

Soldiers brought satchel into the smithy, laid on the anvil, and scourged as much as possible. 

Poor devil had, and no way to climb out! 

Soldiers treated them to glory! 

"Now, enough!"

Raised his knapsack on his shoulders and came to the king with the report: 

"Service de mine is over; more evil forces will not disturb the princess."

The king thanked him: 

"Well done, soldier! Go enjoy yourself all the pubs and restaurants, it is required that your heart desires, 
anything you do not ban!"

And appoint unto him two clerks to go everywhere with him so recorded at public expense, 
  where many soldiers walk up. 
  
Here he walked, walked, skipped a month and went to the king . 

"What service, walk up?" 

- " Walk up, your majesty! I want to go home." 

- "What! Single Stay with us, I'm the first person to do it." 

- "No, sir, I want to see my kin ." 

- " Well, go with God" 

- said the king gave him a wagon, horses and so much money that can not live a century.

Soldiers went home, stuck in the way of a village and saw a friend of a soldier - served in the same regiment. 

"Hello, brother" 

- "Hello" 

- "How are you? " 

- "All the old" 

- " And I the Lord gave happiness: suddenly become rich! 

To celebrate, it is necessary to drink: 

Run down , brother , buy the bucket of wine." 

- "I am happy to run, but, you see, I have not cleaned skotinka; 

bother, go himself- a tavern here, not far" 

- " Okay, but you take my backpack, put in the house yes punish the women not to touch! 

"our soldiers went to the wine, and his countryman brought satchel into the house and tells the women, 

"Do not trozhte!" 

While he was cleaning the cattle, the women can not wait, 

"Let 's see what the loser in the knapsack?" 

They started unbuttoning - how will pop out devils noise so miserably; 

doors with hooks posbivat and well run! And meet them with a bucket of soldiers, 

"Oh, damn! Who let you? 

"Devils got scared and ran into the bukovische2 for the mill, but remained there forever. 

Soldiers came into the house, and let scolded women walk with an old friend, 

and then came home and lived rich and happy.

