One family had three brothers surnamed more Ram , Goat Farmgate and smaller - called Chufil Filyushka1 . One day they 
all three went into the woods , and lived in the woods native watchmen their grandfather . This grandfather Baran yes 
Goat left his brother - Chufil Filyushku , and went to the forest to hunt . Filyushke been and will and share : 
grandfather was old and large nedogad and Filyushka torovat . I wanted him to eat an apple , he otvernulsya2 grandfather 
yes to the garden, and climbed the apple trees. Suddenly, out of nowhere took Yaga drill in iron mortar with pehtilem3 
in hand , galloped to the apple tree and said , "Wow , Filyushka ! Why there climbed ? "-" Yes, that's an apple rip "- 
said Filyushka . " Na-ka , darling , you're my apple ." - "It's rotten ," - said Filyushka . "In here is another " - " 
And this worm-eaten ." - "Well, you will be fooled Filyushka ! And you're here, take I -ka - bullseye then the pen in 
the pen . " He held out his hand . Yaga- drill as grab him and put him in a mortar and galloped through the bushes and 
forests , ravines , Greyhounds chases pehtilem stupa .

Here Filyushka , recollecting himself , began to shout : " Goat , Sheep ! Run faster! Yaga dragged me over those 
mountains to steep for those in the dark forest , for the steppe for gusinovye . " Goat and Sheep resting then , one 
lying on the ground , and he 's heard - someone shouts . " Lean - ka you to the ground ! "

137

- Says a still sedentary . "Oh, it screams our Filyushka ! " Let them run, ran , ran and caught up with the witch - 
borax Filyushku recaptured and taken to his grandfather and grandfather crazy over it went ! Here they were ordered to 
look for Filyushkoy grandfather , and had gone away . Filyushka on previous trick again climbed the apple trees , only 
climbed and Yaga drill again in front of him and gives him an apple . " No, do not deceive me , villain ! " - Said 
Filyushka . "Yes you Filyushka , though I catch an apple , I'll give up ." - "Well , throw ! " Yaga purposely threw him 
an apple lower , he reached for the apple , wanted to grab - suddenly grabbed him by the arm and drill Yaga rushed 
unconscious again up hill and down dale and through the dark woods , dragged him to his house, washed , emasculated and 
landed in a conic .

That morning going Yaga go into the woods and tells her daughter : " Well, my daughter , heated the oven - hot and fry 
me nazharko Chufil - Filyushku to uzhotkomu4 " - and she went to the prey. Daughter heated the hot stove , took 
Filyushku tied and put on a shovel , and just wants to shove it in the oven - and yes , he rested rested in the human 
feet. "You're not so Filyushka " - said the girl witch -brown . " But how ? - Says Filyushka . - I do not know . " - 
"That's how , Let him , I 'll teach you ! " - And went on a shovel as it should, and Chufil - Filyushka was not a fool : 
how suddenly finds itself in her oven and closed barrier very firmly .

It has not been more like two or three hours , Filyushka smelled that smell of fried , otslonil flap and pulled daughter 
Yaga brown izzharennuyu , anointed her with oil , in a pan covered with a towel and put it in a conic , and he went to 
the ceiling so he took with him everyday pehtil stupa and witch -brown . Here comes the evening before Yaga drill 
directly barged in and pulled out a conic fries ; ate all gathered all the bones , placed them on the ground next to him 
and started to ride , and about her daughter and vstryanetsya5 - thinks she's in another hut wool spinning . Here Yaga 
katayuchis , saying: "My dear , my daughter ! Come to me and take a ride with me to Filyushkin bones ! " And Filyushka 
ceiling with shouts:" Ride , mother, lie , mother, on docherninyh bones "-" Oh, you're there, the robber ? Wait , I 'll 
ask you ! "- Gritted her teeth , stomped their feet and climbs to the ceiling. Chufilyushka not scared , grabbed pehtil 
all the fluff and hit her on the forehead : Yaga only kicking in the ground.

Here Filyushka climbed on the roof , saw that the flying geese, he shouts : "Give me a feather , I 'll make myself 
wings ." They gave him a feather on , he flew home . And his house is too long ago for the dead commemorated ; then, as 
it saw everything was overjoyed and started cheerfully instead upokoynoy revelry and steel yourself live happily ever 
after so much good.
