In a certain kingdom , in a country , there lived a king : and the king had three sons , all of them were on the age. 
Only their mother suddenly took Kosh Immortal . The eldest son , and asks his father to look for his mother 's blessing 
. Father has blessed , he left and went missing . Farmgate son pozhdal - pozhdal too earnestly asked his father , left - 
and he was missing . Small son , Prince Ivan said to his father: "Father ! Bless me to look for my mother . " Father 
does not let go , says: " Those not Bratovo , and you go : I'm aroused by die " - " No, sir, bless - go and bless - go." 
Father blessed .

Prince Ivan went to choose their horse : on which lay a hand , and he falleth could not choose a horse is expensive in 
the city, hung his head . Nowhere took the old woman asks: "What , Prince Ivan , hung his head ? " - " Go away, old 
woman ! Put into the hands of the other prishlepnu - mokrenkaya will . " The old woman ran around the other lane , goes 
again to meet , says: "Hello, Ivan Tsarevich ! That hung his head ? " He thinks:" What does the old woman asked me ? Not 
if I can help it ? " And he said to her:" Here , baushka , can not find a good horse . " - " Goosey , muchishsya , and 
the old woman did not kuchishsya ! 1 - meets an old woman . - Come with me . " Led him to the mountain pointed the place 
: " Skapyvay this land ." Ivan Tsarevich skopal sees iron plate on twelve castles , castles he immediately pulled the 
door opened and entered into the earth : then chained to twelve circuits heroic horse , he can be seen and heard by the 
rider himself, neighing clogged all twelve chains broke . Ivan Tsarevich put on a heroic armor , put on a horse bridle , 
saddle Cherkassy , gave money to the old woman and said: " Bless and Goodbye , baushka ! " Sam sat down and went .

Traveled long , finally reached the mountains prebolshuschaya mountain steep vzehat it does not. Then his brothers and 
go near the mountain ; said hello , went together ; run to iron stone hundred and fifty pounds , on a stone inscription: 
who is this stone throw to the mountain, and that will move . Senior Bratovo could not pick up a stone , and Prince Ivan 
scored from one blunder to the mountain - and once in the mountain seemed staircase . He left his horse, from the little 
finger sharpened into a glass of blood, takes the brothers and says: "If in a glass of blood will turn black , do not 
wait for me, then - I'll die ! " Said goodbye and went . Went into a mountain which he had not seen enough ! Vsjaki here 
woods , every berry , every bird !

Long gone , Prince Ivan , came to the house : a huge house ! There lived a king's daughter , dragged Koshom Immortal . 
Ivan Tsarevich circle fence goes and sees the door . King's daughter saw a man went to the balcony ,

shouts at him : "Here , look at the fence there is a gap , potron her little finger , and the door will be ." And it was 
so . Prince Ivan went into the house . Maid accepted it , watered - fed and questioned . He told her that he went to get 
his mother from Kosh Immortal. Maid tells him this: "It is difficult Access Policy, and mother, Prince Ivan ! He's 
immortal - kill you. Me ... he often goes out for a sword in five pounds , you pick him? Then go ! " Ivan Tsarevich not 
only raised his sword still threw up , he went on.

Comes to another house ; door knows how to look ; went into the house , and then his mother , embraced, wept . Here he 
felt his strength, threw the ball in some fifteen hundred pounds . Time comes to be Kosh Immortal and his mother hid him 
. Kosh Immortal suddenly enters the house and says, " Fu Fu ! Russian koski had never heard , not seen views and Russian 
Cosca she came into the yard ! Who you been? Am not ? "-" What are you , God bless you ! Sam flew to Russia , Russian 
picked up the spirit , and you imagining , "- said the mother of Ivan Tsarevich , and she acquainted with gentle words 
to Kosh Immortal , interrogates then - else and says," Where do you get death, Kosh Immortal ? "- "I have a death, - he 
says, - in such a place : there stands an oak, under an oak box , in the box hare hare in a duck in a duck egg, egg in 
my death ." Kosh said that Immortal , he stayed a bit and flew away.


It's time - Ivan Tsarevich blessed mother , went to death Kosh Immortal. Follows the path of a lot of time , not beer , 
never tasted , hungry to death and thinks whoever caught this time ! Suddenly - cub , he wants to kill him . Wolf jumps 
out of the hole and said: "Do not touch my brainchild and I be of use to you ." - " Being so ! " Ivan Tsarevich let wolf 
, goes further, sees voronu2 . "Wait - I think - I zakushu here !" Loaded the gun , wants to shoot ; crow and says, " Do 
not touch me , I'll be of use to ." Ivan Tsarevich thought and let the raven ; goes further comes from the sea , stood 
on the shore. At this time, suddenly vzmetayutsya schuchonok and fell to the shore , and he grabbed him , wants to have 
a mortal - thinking , "Now sing ! " Nowhere took pike, says: "Do not touch , Prince Ivan , my offspring , I'll be of use 
to ." He schuchonka released .

How to pass the sea? Sitting on the beach thinking yes , pike exactly knew him thought, lay across the sea. Prince Ivan 
went through her ​​as the bridge , comes to Dubai, where death was Kosh Immortal , took the box , opened - a hare jumped 
out and ran. Where's the rabbit to keep ! Ivan Tsarevich scared that let the hare, pondered , and the wolf , whom he 
killed , rushed after the hare , and is caught by Ivan Tsarevich . He was delighted , grabbed the hare, and somehow 
ripped his abashed : duck sporhnula and flew . He some shooting , some shooting - by! Wondered again . Raven came from 
nowhere and go for voronyatami duck, duck caught , brought Ivan Tsarevich . Obradel3 prince , took the egg ; went comes 
to the sea, was the egg wash , and ronil water. How to get out of the sea ?

Immeasurable depths ! Zakruchinilsya prince again . Suddenly startled sea - and pike brought him an egg , then lay down 
across the sea. Prince Ivan went to her and went to his mother , comes , said hello , and she hid it again . While flew 
Kosh Immortal and says, " Fu Fu ! Russian koski had never heard , views to be seen, but here bears Rus "-" What are you 
, Kosh ? I have no one , "- replied the mother of Prince Ivan . Kosh again and says: "I can` t something ! " 4 , and 
Prince Ivan shook the egg ; Kosh Immortal from jarred . Finally Ivan Tsarevich went seems egg and says, " Here , Kosh 
Immortal , your death ! " He on his knees against him and says: 'Do not kill me , Prince Ivan , let us live in peace , 
we will be charmed by the whole world . " Ivan Tsarevich not deceived by his words , crushed egg - and Kosh Immortal 
died .

They took , Ivan Tsarevich with his mother, that was needed, went to my homeland : by the way, went for the king's 
daughter , to which Prince Ivan came forward and took her with him , went further , reach the mountains, where the 
brothers Ivan everyone is waiting for the prince . Maid says: " Ivan Tsarevich ! Turn again to my house , I forgot her 
wedding dress , diamond ring and Neshitov shoes . " Meanwhile, he pulled his mother and the king's daughter , with no 
way home , they agreed to marry ; brothers took them , but took a walk down and cut to Prince Ivan could not go down , 
the mother of the damsel, and somehow persuaded threats to the house of Ivan Tsarevich not affected. Arrived in his 
kingdom and his father was delighted children and his wife mourned only one Ivan Tsarevich .


A Prince Ivan returned to the house of his bride , took engagement ring , a wedding dress and shoes Neshitov cometh the 
mountain hurled from one hand to the ring . Was twelve fellows , asked: " What do you want ? " - " Bring me here with 
this mountain." Well done once its lowered . Prince Ivan put a ring - they're gone , went to his kingdom , comes to the 
city where he lived, his father and brothers , stopped at an old woman and asks, " What baushka , new in your kingdom? " 
- " Yes, what , my child ! Here is our queen was a prisoner of the Kosh Immortal ; looking for her three sons , two 
found and turned, and the third , Prince Ivan , no, and do not know where . King of grief about it. And these princes 
mother brought some king's daughter , turnpike wants to marry her , but she sends in advance for a wedding ring 
somewhere or orders to make the same ring , which she had , so they call koldasya5 cry , but no one tries to discover . 
" - "Go , baushka , tell the king what you do , and I posoblyu ", - says Ivan Tsarevich .

Old woman in koyu time skrutilas6 , ran to the king and said: " Your Majesty ! Engagement ring I'll do . " - "Do , Do , 
baushka ! We are so glad people - said the king - and if you do not, then head on the block . " The old woman was 
frightened , came home, forcing Ivan Tsarevich do ring , and Prince Ivan sleeps , thinks little ;

ring ready. He makes fun of the old woman and the old woman shaking all crying , rugatsya him: " Here you are - he says 
- he is from the side, and I , fool , summed up by death." Cried the old woman cried , and fell asleep. Prince Ivan 
arose early in the morning , wake up the old woman : "Arise , baushka , yes , Go incurred ring , yes see : more than a 
tenner for it did not take . When asked who made ​​the ring , saying, itself , does not affect me ! " Old woman was 
delighted, carried the ring , like a bride : " This , - he says - right! " Delivers her dish full of gold, she took only 
one ducat . The king said , "What baushka little take? " - " What do I want a lot of something , Your Majesty ! After 
the need - you give me . " Probayala is old and gone.



It's been there many times - keep rush that sends bride groom for wedding dress or make the same orders , kako she needs 
. The old woman and then managed ( Prince Ivan helped ) , laid a wedding dress . After demolished Neshitov shoes , and 
took one of ducats , and said these things she does. Hear the people that the king on such a day wedding , and waited 
for the day . A Prince Ivan ordered the old woman : "Look, baushka as a bride will bring down the aisle , you tell me ." 
The old woman did not miss time . Ivan Tsarevich immediately dressed in royal dress, goes : "Here baushka I like! " Old 
woman in his feet . "Father , forgive me , I'm cursed ! " - " God will forgive you ." Comes to church . His brother was 
not. He became in a row with his fiancee , were married and led them to the palace. On the road to meet the bridegroom 
comes , big brother , he saw that the bride lead with Ivan Tsarevich , go -ka back with shame . Father rejoiced Prince 
Ivan learned about brothers and craftiness as otpirovali wedding, large sons sent into exile , and Ivan Tsarevich made 
heir.

footnotes


Footnote on page 285

1 Up to heap ; - on with the heap .

Footnote on page 286

2 Voronihu .

3 oblige - enjoy anything.

Footnote on page 287

4 I have something unhealthy ; nemogu - disease ; weak - the patient .

When 5 .

6 Cool - dress sbiraetsya .
