Old man lived with the old woman , they have had a daughter and son so small. " My daughter , my daughter ! - Said the 
mother . - We go to work, bring you a bun , sew a dress , buy a handkerchief , and be smart , take care of her brother , 
do not go to court . " Senior left, and her daughter had forgotten that she ordered ; brother landed on the grass under 
the window , and she ran into the street , began to play , go on a spree . Swooped geese , picked up the boy , carried 
away on the wings . Came the girl , looking - brother no! Gasped , ran back and forth - no. Click, in tears , prichityvala 
, the evil will of the father and mother - brother did not respond ! ran in

open field , darted away geese and disappeared behind a dark forest. Geese long notoriety amassed a lot of small children 
and Skoda kradyvali ; girl guessed that they carried her brother , rushed to catch up . Run-run , it is worth stove. " 
Oven , Stove, tell me where the geese fly ? " - " Eat my rye patty , tell you." - "Oh, my father is not eaten wheat ! " 
Oven not say . Ran on , apple stands . " Apple trees , apple trees, tell me where the geese fly ? " - " Eat my apple 
forest , say ." - "Oh, my father's garden and not eaten ! " Ran on , worth milk river, milk and honey . "Milk river, milk 
and honey , where the geese fly ? " - " Eat my simple kiselika with milk , I say ." - "Oh, my father and slivochki not 
eaten ! "

And how long would it run on the field but to roam the woods , but fortunately caught porcupine she wanted to push it , 
afraid to chop and asks: "Hedgehog , hedgehog , have not seen any where the geese fly ? " - " Look back and then "- have .
Ran - worth hut on chicken legs , worth - turns . In the hut sits Baba Yaga , face Zilina leg clay , and brother sitting 
on the bench , playing golden apples . Saw his sister , stole , grabbed and carried , and the geese chase after her fly ; 
villains catch up , where to go ? Milk River runs , milk and honey . " River - Mother, hide me ! " - " Eat my kiselika ! "
Nothing to do , ate . The river landed her under berezhok , geese flew . She went out and said, "Thank you" again and runs
with her ​​brother , geese and turned, flying towards . What to do? Trouble! Cost of apple trees. " Apple, apple -mother ,
hide me ! " - " Eat my forestry bullseye ! " Hurry ate . Overshadowed her apple twigs , leaves covered ; geese flew . Came 
again and runs with her ​​brother , and saw the geese - yes her ; quite raid , so the wings beat that and look - will pull 
out of the hands ! Fortunately, on the road stove. "Madam stove , hide me ! " - " Eat my rye pie ! " Girl hurry pie in her 
mouth , and she in the oven, in the village ustetso . Geese flew , flew , to shout - Shouted or anything departed . And 
she ran home , so it's good that managed to come running , and then father and mother came .
