May I amuse you a fairy tale? It's a wonderful tale. There are marvelous marvels, 
wondrous wonders, and the laborer Shabarsha, Shabarsha who is a rogue among rogues: 
oh, well, in for a penny, in for a pound! So Shabarsha set off to work as a laborer, 
and times were bad. There was no grain at all, and the vegetables didn't grow. 

But one owner thought a deep thought. 
How could he chase away his misery, what could he live on, where could he get some money? 

"Don't worry about it," said Shabarsha to him. "There will come a day and there will be
both grain and money!" And Shabarsha set off for the millpond. "At any rate I can catch
some fish. I'll sell them and I'll have some money. But I've no line and no hook. 
Wait a minute and I'll make one." He asked the miller for a handful of hemp, 
sat down on the shore, and started weaving his tackle.

He wove and wove and then a boy in a black shirt and red hat jumped out of the water. 
"Grandfather! What are you doing here?" he asked.
"I'm weaving a line."
"Why?"
"I intend to cleanse this pond of all you devils by pulling you out of the water."
"Oh, no! Wait a little. I'll go and tell grandfather." The imp dove deep down and Shabarsha
went back to work. 
"Wait a minute," he thought, "I'll play a trick on you, you cursed ones. You'll bring me 
some gold and silver." And shabarsha began digging a pit and when he had dug it, he placed his
with a cutout hold over it.
"Shabarsha, oh Shabarsha! Grandfather says that you and I should trade. What will you take
not to drag us out of the water?"
"Fill that had full of gold and silver."

The imp dove back into the water. he came back and said, "Grandfather says that you and I should 
first wrestle."
"What do you mean, milksop; why should I wrestle the likes of you?
You couldn't even deal with my middle brother, Misha?"
"And where is your Misha?"
"Look over there. He's resting in that ravine under a bush."
"How can I call him out?"
"Go up to him and hit him in the side. Then he'll get up of his own accord."

The imp went into the ravine, found the bear, and whacked him in the side with his club. 
Misha rose up on his hind legs and grabbed the imp so that all his bones cracked.

He forced himself out of the bear's claws and ran to the old man in the water.

"Well, grandfather," he said in his fright, "Shabarsha has a younger brother, Misha, and he was
about to wrestle with me when he cracked all my bones. What would it have been like if I had 
started to wrestle with Shabarsha?"
"Hmm, go and try to have a foot race with Shabarsha; we'll see who can win that."
So the boy in the red hat once more came up to Shabarsha. 
He repeated his grandfather's words and Shabarsha replied, "Why should I race with the likes of you?
My little brother, Bunny, will leave you far behind."
"And where is your little brother Bunny?"
"He's over there, lying in the grass. he wanted a rest. Go up closer to him and touch him on the ear. 
Then he'll race with you." 

The 







This is a wonderful tale about a laborer who was named Shabarsha. 
Shabarsha was a rogue's rogue. 

A wonderful tale: there is in her diva wonderful , wonderful miracle , a laborer Shabarsha 
of Pluto Pluto : how much took up the plow , so necha say - all a pound ! Went on Shabarsha laborers zhit1 yes Godin 
came dashing no bread no , no vegetables were not born . Here's a thought and thinks host deep thought : how to disperse 
evil grief than to live happily ever after , where the money to take? " Oh, do not fret , the owner ! - Tells him 
Shabarsha . - Would day - bread and the money will be ! " And he went on Shabarsha mill dam . "Perhaps - think - catch 
fish ; selling - en 's money! Aha , yes , there is no rope for the bait ... Wait, now sovyu . " Begged the miller 
handful of hemp , sat on the bank and well build a hook .

Fork - lift , and jumping out of the water on the beach boy in black jacket but in a red cap . " Uncle ! You're here you 
doing ? "- He said . " But the rope twist ." - "Why? " - " Yes, I want to clean the pond so you devils out of the water 
to carry ." - " Oh, no ! Wait a little , and I 'll go and tell my grandfather . " Imp dived deep and Shabarsha started 
again for work. "Wait - I think - I 'll play with you , Cursed , piece , you bring me and of gold and silver ." And he 
began Shabarsha dig a hole dug and pointed at her with his hat cut tops. " Shabarsha and Shabarsha ! Grandpa says that 
I'm with you bargained . What would you take to get us out of the water does not carry ? "-" Yes, that this cap pour 
full of gold and silver . "

Imp dived into the water returned back , "Grandpa said that I struggled with you first ." - " Oh, where are you, suckers 
, fight with me ! Yes, you can not get along with my middle brother tatty . " - " Where's your teddy bear ? " - " And 
there , look, resting under a bush in the ravine ." - " How can I call it ? " - " Did you come so hit him poboku , so he 
himself will fall ." Imp went into the ravine , found the bear and grabbing his baton on his side. Bear in Dybok rose , 
twisted imp so that he has all the bones cracked . Hardly escaped from the bear paw , he ran to the water to the old man 
. "Well, my grandfather - he predicts in a fright , - the middle brother has Shabarshi Bear , was seized with me to 
fight - azhno bone I cracked ! Well it would be ,



if he somehow became Shabarsha fight "-" Hm! Go on, try to run a race with Shabarshoy ; overtake someone who ? "

And the boy in the red cap again beside Shabarshi ; grandfather gave him a speech , and he answered him : " But where do 
you run a race with me ! My little brother Zainka - and that you will leave far behind "-" Where is your brother Zainka 
? "-" Yes there - lay in the grass , relax wanted . Come closer to him so touch the ear - so he will run with you ! " 
Ran imp to Zainka , touched his ear , hare and sprinkled little devil was after him ! " Wait, wait , Zainka , let you 
catch up ... Oh, gone! " - " Well , grandfather, - said liquid, - I was rushed briskly run. Kuda ! And catch up is not 
given, but it still does not Shabarsha himself and his younger brother ran "-" Hm! - The old man muttered , frowning . - 
Go and try to Shabarshe : who is stronger whistle ? "

" Shabarsha and Shabarsha ! Grandpa told to try: who among us stronger whistle ? "-" Well, you first whistle . " Imp 
whistled so loudly that Shabarsha hardly stood on his feet , and the trees so the leaves and fell . " Good whistle - 
Shabarsha says - and it's not in my opinion ! As I whistle - you can not stand on your feet , and your ears will not 
tolerate ... Lie face down to the ground so my ears with your fingers . " Imp lay prone on the ground and covered his 
ears with your fingers ; Shabarsha took cudgel yes with all his might suffice as his neck , and the FY- FY- FY ! .. 
Whistles . "Oh , Grandpa , Grandpa ! But how cool whistled Shabarsha - azhno I spark from his eyes fell , barely rose 
from the ground , and on the neck to the waist so , I think , all the bones broken "-" Wow ! Not strong enough to know , 
you little devil ! Go - tissue , take it in the reeds , my iron club , but try one of you vskinet above it on the air? "


Imp took the baton , slung it over his shoulder and went to Shabarshe . "Well, Shabarsha grandfather told last try : one 
of us up into the air vskinet this club ? " - " Well, you throw it before, and I'll see ." Raised his baton imp - high 
up she flew like a dot in the sky is black ! Hardly waited until the ground has fallen ... Took Shabarsha club - hard ! 
Put it on the end of the legs , leaned his hand and began to gaze at the sky. " Why do not you throw ? What are you 
waiting ? "- Asks imp . " I'm waiting out Ent cloud approach - I Throw up at her club , there sits my brother blacksmith 
, he is useful to the case of iron ." - " Oh, no , Shabarsha ! Do not throw the baton on a cloud , and then angry 
grandpa ! " Imp snatched the baton and dived to his grandfather .


I heard from my grandfather granddaughter that Shabarsha very nearly threw his baton , not a little scared and told to 
pull out of the pool of money to pay off yes . Imp dragged dragged - money , too many peretaskali - cap and all is not 
complete ! " Well , Grandpa , to a miracle in Shabarshi Beanie ! All the money in her hauled , and it is still empty. 
Now was your last chest . " - " Bring it and soon ! Rope - he weaves ? "-" Viet, Grandpa! "-" That's it! " Nothing to do 
, Poch imp cherished grandfather chest became pour Shabarshovu cap - showered showered ...
hardly added ! Since that time , since that time has healed the servant boy to glory to him calling me honey - drink 
beer , but I did not go honey, say , was bitter and dull beer . Why would a parable ?
