In a certain kingdom , in a country , there lived a king : and the king had three daughters and one son , Prince Ivan . 
King grew old and died , and the crown took Prince Ivan . How did you know about that neighboring kings, now collected 
countless troops and went to her in battle . Prince Ivan does not know what he should do , comes to her sisters and asks
: "Dear my sisters ! What do I do ? All the kings went to war with me . " - " Oh , brave warrior ! What I was afraid ? 
How did White Polyanin fighting with a woman - yagoyu golden foot , thirty years from the horse does not peel off , 
rozdyhu knows ? And you, not seeing anything , scared! " Ivan Tsarevich immediately saddled his good horse , put on the 
harness of war, took magic sword , spear and whip dolgomernoe silk , and prayed to God , and went against the enemy , 
not so much with the sword has many horse treads ; interrupted all the host of the enemy , returned to the city, went to 
bed and slept soundly for three days . On the fourth day woke up , went to the balcony and looked into the open field - 
more than the kings and armies gathered again under the very walls approached .

Zapechalilsya prince , goes to her sisters : "Oh, sister ! What do I do ? One force destroyed , the other near the town 
stands , threatens more than ever . " - " What you're a warrior ! Night fighting , but wakes up three days without sleep 
. How did White Polyanin fighting with a woman - yagoyu golden foot , thirty years from the horse does not peel off , 
rozdyhu knows ? " Prince Ivan ran into the white stone stables, saddled good horse athletic , put on the harness of war, 
girded magic sword in one hand and took the spear dolgomernoe ,

310

another whip silk , prayed to God and went against the enemy . Not bright falcon swooped on a flock of geese , swans and 
gray Utitsa , Ivan Tsarevich attacks on the army of the enemy , not so much an effort as his horse tramples . Men beat - 
great force , came home , went to bed and was fast asleep for six days . On the seventh day woke up , went to the 
balcony and looked into the open field - more than the kings troops gathered again and the whole city was surrounded .

Prince Ivan goes to the sisters : "Dear my sisters ! What do I do ? Two forces destroyed , under the walls of the third 
stands still facing the forest . " - " Oh , brave warrior ! Night fighting , but without wakes up sleeping six . How did 
White Polyanin fighting with a woman - yagoyu golden foot , thirty years from the horse does not peel off , rozdyhu 
knows ? " Kiss it seemed to Prince , he fled to the white stone stables, saddled his horse kind of giant , put on the 
harness of war, sword girded kladenets , in one hand, took the spear dolgomernoe to another whip silk , and prayed to 
God , and went up against the enemy . Not bright falcon swooped on a flock of geese , swans and gray Utitsa , Ivan 
Tsarevich attacks on the army of the enemy , not so much an effort as his horse tramples . Men beat - great force , came 
home , went to bed and was fast asleep for nine days . On the tenth day woke up , called on all ministers and senators , 
" Lord my ministers and senators ! I sought to go to foreign countries , to see Bela Polyanina ; ask you to judge and to 
dress , all cases go to the truth. " Then said goodbye to the sisters sat on the horse and went on their way .

Long or short it - he drove into the dark forest , and he is - a hut stands in that hut old man lives . Prince Ivan went 
to see him : "Hi, Grandpa! " - " Hello, Russian prince ! Where God brought you ? "-" I am the White Polyanina ; Do you 
not know where he is? "-" I myself do not know, but wait, gather his faithful servants , and I'll ask them. " The old 
man spoke at the porch, played in a silver tube - and suddenly began to him from all sides of the bird fly. Flown their 
multitudes , black tucheyu sky covered . Old man shouted in a loud voice , whistle whistle valiant : "Servants of my 
faithful , migratory birds ! Not seen eh, have not heard about what the White miles Polyanina ? "-" No, I have not seen 
a view , had never heard of "-" Well, Prince Ivan , - said the old man - Go now to my older brother , maybe he will tell 
you . Here, take a ball , let before him , where a ball will roll , and there horse manage " . Ivan Tsarevich sat on his 
good horse , drove a ball and went after him , and all the dark forest but darker.


Prince comes to the hut is included in the door, the old man sits in the hut - snowy hair . "Hi, Grandpa! " - " Hello, 
Russian prince ! Where are you going ? "-" I am the White Polyanina ; Do you not know where he is? "-" But wait, gather 
his faithful servants , and I'll ask them. " The old man spoke at the porch ; played in a silver tube - and suddenly 
came to him from all sides of a different beast . They cried with a loud voice , whistle whistle valiant " my faithful 
servants , animals pryskuchie ! Not seen eh, have not heard about what the White miles Polyanina ? "-" No, - meet the 
animals - a view not seen , had never heard of . " - " Well ,




pay with amongst themselves , can not all come . " Beasts have paid amongst themselves - no curve wolf . The old man 
sent to look for her : and immediately ran messengers and took her . "I tell curve wolf , do not know whether you're 
White Polyanina ? " - " How can I not know if I live with him zavsegda , he beats the troops , and I eat a dead corpse 
." - "Where is he now? " - " In the open field , on a large mound in the tent sleeping. He fought with the woman - 
yagoyu golden foot , and then lay down on the battle for twelve days to sleep. " - " Spend there Prince Ivan ." A wolf 
ran and jumped after her prince .


He comes to a large mound , is a tent - White Polyanin resting soundly . " That's my sister said that the White Polyanin 
rozdyhu without fighting , and he lay down to sleep for twelve days ! Do not fall asleep and I yet? " Thought and 
thought Ivan Tsarevich and lay beside him . Then flew into the tent small bird , winds near the bedside and said those 
words , "Arise , awake, White Polyanin , and utterly evil death of my brother, Prince Ivan , not rise - he 'll kill you 
! " Prince Ivan jumped up and caught the bird , tore her right leg thrown over the tent, and lay down again near the 
White Polyanina . Do not have time to go to sleep as other bird arrives , winds at the head and says, " Arise , awake, 
White Polyanin , and utterly evil death of my brother Ivan Tsarevich , not rise - he 'll kill you ! " Prince Ivan jumped 
up and caught the bird, tore her right wing, threw her out of the tent and lay down again in the same place . After that 
arrives the third bird , winds at the head and says, " Arise , awake, White Polyanin , and utterly evil death of my 
brother Ivan Tsarevich , not that it will rise so will kill you ! " Prince Ivan jumped up and caught a bird and that 
tore her beak , bird thrown out , and he lay down and fell fast asleep .



The time has come - White awoke Polyanin looks - with him neznamo what hero lies , grabbed a sharp sword , and would 
have put him to death, evil , yes resist time. " No, I - think - he ran over me sleepy and did not want to bloody sword 
, not honor, not praise me, good fellow , to ruin it! Sleepy that the dead ! Better wake him up . " Woke Ivan Tsarevich 
and asks: " Do Good , lean a person ? Say, what's your name is called and what drove here ? "-" My name is Ivan 
Tsarevich , and came to look at you , try your strength . " - " It hurts dare you , Prince ! Without permission of the 
tent came in, without enough sleep report , can you for death betray "-" Oh, White Polyanin ! Not jumped over the ditch 
, but bragging , wait - maybe stumble ! You have two hands , and my mother gave birth to not one . "


They sat on their heroic horses gathered and hit , so much so that their spears into pieces scattered , and good horses 
fell to his knees . Prince Ivan knocked out of the saddle White Polyanina and raised over him a sharp sword . Begged him 
Polyanin White : "Do not give me death , give me belly! We call your smaller brother , a father will read . " Ivan 
Tsarevich took him by the hand, and lifted from the ground, kissed her on the mouth and called his smaller brother : " I 
​​have heard , brother, you're thirty years with a woman - foot golden yagoyu you fight for what you have war? " - " 
Have her beautiful daughter ,
I want to get married yes . " - "Well, - said the prince - if friendship led , so help in trouble ! Come fight together. "

Mounted their horses , went to the open field ; Baba Yaga golden leg exposed army - force untold . It is not clear 
falcons swooped on a flock of pigeon , was admitted to silnomoguchie heroes army of the enemy ! Not so much swords hack 
how horses trample ; prirub , stamp down whole thousands . Baba Yaga rushed heels , and Ivan Tsarevich her ​​pursuit. 
Became quite catch was - as she suddenly ran to the deep abyss , lifted an iron plate , and disappeared under the earth 
. Ivan Tsarevich and White Polyanin bought bulls great multitude , began to beat them , leather straps cut Sima yes , 
one of those belts platted rope - yes so long that one way here and another on the light reach. Prince says the White 
Polyaninov " me quickly descends into the abyss , but do not pull out the rope back and wait : I like the rope in the 
turf , and then drag ! " White Polyanin lowered him into the abyss at the bottom. Prince Ivan looked around and went to 
seek Baba Yaga .

Shel- was looking - tailors sit behind bars . " What are you doing ? " - " But , Ivan Tsarevich : yes sit army sew for 
Baba Yaga's golden feet." - "How are you making ? " - " Known as a needle that kolnesh , then Cossack with a lance , a 
horse goes down, becomes operational and goes to war against the White Polyanina ." - "Oh , brother ! Soon you will be 
doing , but not tight , get -ka in a row, I 'll teach you how to sew stronger . " They immediately lined up in a row , 
and Ivan Tsarevich wag like a sword , and flew head. Tailors and beat went on. Shel- was looking - cobblers sitting 
behind bars . "What are you doing here ? " - " Sit da army preparing for Baba Yaga's golden feet." - "How are you, my 
friends, army cook? " - " And here is how : that 'll get With an awl , and then a soldier with a gun , a horse goes down
, becomes operational and goes to war against the White Polyanina ." - " Hey, guys! Soon you do, so do not argue. Become 
Single in a row, I 'll teach you better . " Here they began to row; Prince Ivan waved the sword, and flew head. Broke 
shoemakers , and again on the road.

Long or short it - he got to the big beautiful city , in the royal city of towers built in those Terem girl sits 
indescribable beauty . She saw in the window good fellow , fond of her black curls , falcon eyes , eyebrows, sable , 
oven mitts heroic ; zazvali prince to himself , questioned where and what goes. He told her that he is looking for Baba 
Yaga golden leg. "Ah, Prince Ivan , because I'm her daughter , she is asleep now , lain down to rest for twelve days ." 
Put him out of the city and showed the way. Prince Ivan went to Baba Yaga golden foot, found her sleeping , struck with 
the sword and cut off her head . Head rolled and she said: " More Bay , Prince Ivan ! " - " Athletic hit and one good! " 
- Replied the prince , returned to the red towers in the girl sat down with her ​​at the oak tables , tablecloths for 
battle. Ate , drank and began to ask, " Do I in the light of stronger and more beautiful you? " - " Ah, Prince Ivan ! 
What I am for beauty! Here's how to distant lands , tridesyatom kingdom lives of the king snake princess because she 
truly ineffable beauty : she had just washed my feet , and I toyu washed with water ! "



Ivan Tsarevich took the damsel by the red , white hand , led to the place where the rope hung , and signaled the White 
Polyaninov . He grabbed the rope and began to pull , pulled , pulled and pulled the prince with a beautiful maiden . 
"Hello, White Polyanin - said Ivan Tsarevich - here's bride ; live , and be merry , nothing crushes ! And I 'm going 
snake kingdom . " Sat on his heroic horse , said goodbye to the White Polyaninov and his bride , and rode to distant 
lands. Long or short it , whether low , if high - easier said soon , but not soon recieve deal - he came into the realm 
of snake , killed King Snake , freed from captivity beautiful princess and married her , after returned home and became 
a young wife to live happily ever after .
