Lived cat , sparrow yes zhiharko thirds . Yes cat sparrow went to chop wood and zhiharku say " yes Domovnichay see : if 
Baba Yaga will become so consider spoons, you do not say anything , keep quiet ! " - " Well ," - said Zhikhar . Yes cat 
sparrow went and sat on the stove Zhikhar per tube . Suddenly Baba Yaga is , take a spoon and deemed "This - Kotova 
spoon it - Vorobyov spoon, third - zhiharkova ." Zhikhar could not stand , and shouted : "Do not touch , Baba Yaga , my 
spoon ." Baba Yaga seized ZHIKHAREV , sat in a stupa , gone , rides in a mortar, pestle ponuzhat2 and broom zametat 
traces . Zhikhar roared : "The cat , go! Sparrow , fly! " Those heard ran . Begun to scratch the cat witch Babu , and a 
sparrow pecking ; ZHIKHAREV robbed .

The next day again began to gather in the forest to cut wood , bought ZHIKHAREV : "Look , if Baba Yaga is , do not say 
anything , we are now far leave." Zhikhar just sat behind a chimney on the stove , Baba Yaga appeared again , began to 
count the spoons "This - Kotova spoon it - Vorobyov spoon it - zhiharkova ." Zhiharko could not restrain myself , roared
: "Do not touch , Baba Yaga , my spoon ." Baba Yaga ZHIKHAREV grabbed , pulled and Zhikhar roars : "Cat , Run! Sparrow ,
fly! " Those heard ran , cat scratching, pecking sparrow Yaga Babu ! ZHIKHAREV robbed , went home .

On the third day they assembled in the forest to cut wood , ZHIKHAREV say : "Look , if Baba Yaga will - be silent , we 
are now far leave." Yes cat sparrow went and sat down at Zhikhar thirds of the pipe on the stove and suddenly Baba Yaga 
again takes spoons and deemed "This - Kotova spoon it - Vorobyov spoon, third - zhiharkova ." Zhikhar silent. Baba Yaga 
vdrugoryad deemed "This - Kotova spoon it - Vorobyov it - zhiharkova ." Zhikhar silent. Baba Yaga is the third time 
deemed "This - Kotova spoon it - Vorobyov spoon, third - zhiharkova ." Zhiharko could not stand , zabazlal3 : "Do not 
touch me , bitch , my spoon ." Baba Yaga ZHIKHAREV grabbed , dragged . Zhikhar shouts: "Cat , Run! Sparrow , fly! " 
Brothers do not hear it .

Baba Yaga dragged ZHIKHAREV home planted in golbets4 itself flooded stove , large daughter says : " Whore ! I will go to
Russia , you fry for dinner zhiharka me . " - " Okay ! " - She says. Istopit stove , leaving the girl tells ZHIKHAREV . 
Zhikhar left. " Lie down on ladku5 " - says the girl again . Zhikhar lay down , staring at the ceiling with one leg , 
the other in navolok6 . Girl says, " Not so , not so! " Zhikhar Bast : "What ? Come instructive . " Girl lay in 
debugging . Zhikhar not timid grabbed oven fork , and shoved into the oven with debugging yagishninoy daughter , he left
again into golbets sitting - Baba Yaga dozhidatsya . Baba Yaga suddenly came running and said, " Ride was lie

was on zhiharkovyh bones ! " Zhikhar And she replied:" Ride , lie on docherninyh bones ! "

Baba Yaga caught , looked : her daughter roasted and roared : " Oh, you rascal , wait! Not uverneshsya ! " Prikazyvat 
Farmgate daughter roast zhiharka itself left. Farmgate daughter heated the stove , leaving zhiharku orders . Zhikhar 
went and lay down in debugging , one leg staring at the ceiling in a friend navolok . Girl says, " Not so , not so " - "
And instructive : how? " Babe lay in debugging . Zhikhar took and shoved it in the oven, he went to golbets sitting 
there. Suddenly Baba Yaga " Ride was , was to lie on zhiharkovyh bones ! " He replied: ' lie , ride docherninyh bones ! 
" Yagishna mad :" Hey, wait a minute - he says - not uverneshsya ! " Orders to roast his young daughter . Not far from 
it , and this roasted Zhikhar ! .

Baba Yaga Forest angry : " Wait a minute - he says - I do not uverneshsya ! " Istopit oven, shouting: " Come out, 
zhiharko ! Down here on the frets . " Zhikhar lay down , staring at the ceiling with one leg , another in navolok not 
chelo7 goes . Baba Yaga says, " Not so , not so! " And if Zhikhar not know. "I - he says - I do not know very 
instructive ! " Baba Yaga and went immediately pursed in debugging . Zhikhar not timid , but took it and shoved into the
furnace, he go home , he ran , skazyvat brothers : " That's what I did with Baba Yaga - ! "

footnotes

Footnote on page 135

2 errands .

3 Bazlat - shout loudly .

4 Wooden pridelka to the oven , which makes a move underground.

5 frets - a clay pan .

6 Paul.

Footnote on page 136

7 Chelo - Russian upper part of the furnace.
