In the old days there was one village, things go into that village kite flying, people devour . All eaten ; was only one 
man. In those days there comes Gypsies , it was late in the evening . Wherever you look in - all empty ! Stopped finally 
at the last hut , there sits and laments the rest man. "Hello , my good man ! " - " Why did you , Gypsy ? True life you 
tired ? "-" Why? "-" Why, here things go kite flying, people devour , all eaten , I am one to leave , and will arrive 
tomorrow - and I will devour , and you nesdobrovat . Together the two will eat "-" Maybe choke! Let me spend the night 
with you so see tomorrow what- a kite flies to you ? " Spent the night .

Morning rose suddenly a violent storm , shook hut - arrives snakes , "Aha ! - Says. - Profit is ! Left one man , and 
found two . Breakfast will be less than "-" Like really eat ? "- Asks Roma. "Yes, did eat " - " You're lying , bloody 
ugly mug ! Choke "-" Well, you're stronger than I did ? "-" Of course! Tea , you know that I have power over yours. " - 
" Well , let's try it : Who is stronger? " - " Come on! " Snake pulled out of the stone millstones , "Look, Roma ! I had 
this crush stone with one hand . " - " Okay, look! " Serpent Stone took a handful and squeezed so tightly that he turned 
into a fine sand : sparks and showered ! " Ekoe miracle ! - Says Roma. - And so you squeeze the stone , that the water 
flowed from it . Look, I clench ! " And on the table lay a bundle curd ; Roma grabbed him and crush well - whey and 
flowed down . "What is seen ? Who has more power ? "-" True, you have a stronger hand after my try but who among us 
stronger whistle ? "-" Well, whistle ! " Serpent whistled as - of all the trees leaf crumbled . "Well , brother, 
whistling , and it's not as bad as mine , - the gypsy said . - Bind -ka advance its walleye , and that's how I whistle - 
they at you from the forehead povyskochat ! " Snake believed handkerchief and tied my eyes ," Well , whistle ! " Gypsy 
took a club so as hiss snake on the head - that all throats shouted: " Come, come , Roma ! Do not whistle anymore and 
never with one little eyes did not come out . " - "As you know , and I, perhaps, ready and even once or twice a whistle 
." - "No , do not, do not want to argue. Let's you and I fraternized : thou elder brother , and I'm the youngest . " - " 
Perhaps ! "

" Well, brother, - says snakes - go away - there on the steppes herd of oxen choose the fattest , take the tail and drag 
for lunch ." Nothing to do - Roma went into the steppe , and he is - a large herd grazing cattle, let them catch yes to 
one another by their tails to communicate. Snakes waiting - waiting , could not resist and ran himself : " What took so 
long ? " - " But wait a minute : Bind fifty pieces , but at one time , and dragged all home to enough for a whole month 
! " - " Eka you ! Shall we have here vekovat century ? Will be one . " Here snakes seized the fattest ox tail , pulled 
off his skin , meat shouldered and dragged


home. " Why, brother, I imposed many pieces - neuzhli Well so quit ? " - " Well , come on ."

Came into the house , two boilers naklali beef and water present. " You're wearing cowhide - says gypsy snakes - Go, 
type the full water and carry it here , let us cook dinner ." Roma took the skin , dragged to the well - barely drags 
the rinsed , not that with water . Come and let's ditch all around the well . Snakes again waiting - waiting , could not 
resist and ran himself : "What are you , brother doing? " - " I want to dig around a pit circle yes all in the house to 
drag , so did not have to walk on water." - " What a you ! Plenty afoot ! To dig around , have a lot of time. " Lowered 
into a pit of snakes skin , scored full of water , pulled and carried it home . " And you, brother - said the gypsy , - 
go away until the forest , pick a dry oak and dies in the house , it's time to raise the fire ! " Gypsy went into the 
forest and began to tear Laki yes rope twist ; Svilen long - long rope and began to entangle oaks . Snakes waiting - 
waiting , could not resist , he ran : " With so loiter ? " - " Yes, that want to infect oaks twenty hook a rope , and 
haul everything from roots to firewood long enough " - " Eka you ! All their own doing , "- said the snakes , uprooted 
the thickest oak and dragged him into the house .


Roma pretended hard angry pout and sit in silence. Snakes Navariya beef, calling him to dinner , and he responds with 
the heart : " I ​​do not want ! " That snake ate a whole ox , drank water cowhide and began to interrogate Gypsy : "Say 
, brother, for that angry? " - " And for : I do not - it is not so , it's not your way "-" do not be angry , make it up 
! ' - ' If you want to make peace with me , let's go to my house . " - " Very well , ready, brother! " Immediately got 
snakes wagon harnessed three that neither have the best horses , and rode together in a gypsy camp . Began driving up ; 
Gipsy boys saw his dad , running towards him naked so wholeheartedly shout " Batko came the serpent brought ! " Snake 
scared asks a Gypsy , "Who is it? " - " And then my kids ! Tea, hungry now , see how for you will ! " Serpent of carts, 
yes run , and Roma sold three horses with a wagon and lived happily ever imagine .
