 In a certain kingdom there lived a merchant. Although he had been married for twelve years, he had only one
 daughter, called Vasilisa the Beautiful. When the girl was eight years old, her mother died. On her deathbed 
 the merchant's wife called her daughter, took a doll from under her coverlet, gave it to the girl, and said: "Listen, Vasilisushka. Remember and heed my last words. I am dying, and together with my maternal blessing I
 leave you this doll. Always keep it with you and do not show it to anyone; if you get into trouble, give the 
 doll food, and ask its advice. When it has eaten, it will tell you what to do in your trouble." Then the mother 
 kissed her child and died. 

 After his wife's death the merchant mourned as is proper, and then began to think of marrying again. He was a 
 handsome man and had no difficulty in finding a bride, but he liked best a certain widow. Because she was 
 elderly and had two daughters of her own, of almost the same age as Vasilisa, he thought that she was an 
 experienced housewife and mother. So he married her, but was deceived, for she did not turn out to be a good 
 mother for his Vasilisa. Vasilisa was the most beautiful girl in the village; her stepmother and stepsisters 
 were jealous of her beauty and tormented her by giving her all kinds of work to do, hoping that she would grow 
 thin from toil and tanned from exposure to the wind and sun; in truth, she had a most miserable life. But 
 Vasilisa bore all this without complaint and became lovelier and more buxom, every day, while the stepmother and 
 her daughters grew thin and ugly from spite, although they always sat with folded hands, like ladies. 
 How did all this come about? Vasihsa was helped by her doll. Without its aid the girl could never have managed 
 all that work. In return, Vasilisa sometimes did not eat, but kept the choicest morsels for her doll. And at 
 night, when everyone was asleep, she would lock herself in the little room in which 
 
 she lived, and would give the doll a treat, saying: "Now, little doll, eat, and listen to my troubles. I live in
 my father's house but am deprived of all joy; a wicked stepmother is driving me from the white world. Tell me 
 how I should live and what I should do." The doll would eat, then would give her advice and comfort her in her 
 trouble, and in the morning, she would perform all the chores for Vasilisa, who rested in the shade and picked 
 flowers while the flower beds were weeded, the cabbage sprayed, the water brought in, and the stove fired. The 
 doll even showed Vasilisa an herb that would protect her from sunburn. She led an easy life, thanks to her doll. 
 
 Several years went by. Vasilisa grew up and reached the marriage age. She was wooed by all the young men in the 
 village, but no one would even look at the stepmother's daughters. The stepmother was more spiteful than ever, 
 and her answer to all the suitors was: "I will not give the youngest in marriage before the elder ones." And 
 each time she sent a suitor away, she vented her anger on Vasilisa in cruel blows. 
 One day the merchant had to leave home for a long time in order to trade in distant lands. The stepmother moved 
 to another house; near that house was a thick forest, and in a glade of that forest there stood a hut, and in 
 the hut lived Baba Yaga. She never allowed anyone to come near her and ate human beings as if they were chickens. 
 
 Having moved into the new house, the merchant's wife, hating Vasilisa, repeatedly sent the girl to the woods for 
 one thing or another; but each time Vasilisa returned home safe and sound: her doll had showed her the way and 
 kept her far from Baba Yaga's hut. 
 Autumn came. The stepmother gave evening work to all three maidens: the oldest had to make lace, the second had 
 to knit stockings, and Vasilisa had to spin; and each one had to finish her task. The stepmother put out the 
 lights all over the house, leaving only one candle in the room where the girls worked, and went to bed. The 
 girls worked. The candle began to smoke; one of the stepsisters took up a scissors to trim it, but instead, 
 following her mother's order, she snuffed it out, as though inadvertently. "What shall we do now?" said the 
 girls. "There is no light in the house and our tasks are not finished. 
 
 Someone must run to Baba Yaga and get some light." "The pins on my lace give me light," said the one who was 
 making lace. "I shall not go." "I shall not go either," said the one who was knitting stockings, "my knitting 
 needles give me light." "Then you must go," both of them cried to their stepsister. "Go to Baba Yaga!" And they 
 pushed Vasilisa out of the room. She went into her own little room, put the supper she had prepared before her 
 doll, and said: "Now dolly, eat, and aid me in my need. They are sending me to Baba Yaga for a light, and she 
 will eat me up." The doll ate the supper and its eyes gleamed like two candles. "Fear not, Vasilisushka," it 
 said. "Go where you are sent, only keep me with you all the time. With me in your pocket you will suffer no harm
 from Baba Yaga." Vasilisa made ready, put her doll in her pocket, and, having made the sign of the cross, went 
 into the deep forest. 

 She walked in fear and trembling. Suddenly a horseman galloped past her: his face was white, he was dressed in 
 white, his horse was white, and his horse's trappings were white- daybreak came to the woods. 
 She walked on farther, and a second horseman galloped past her: he was all red, he was dressed in red, and his 
 horse was red-the sun began to rise. 

 Vasilisa walked the whole night and the whole day, and only on the following evening did she come to the glade 
 where Baba Yaga's hut stood. The fence around the hut was made of human bones, and on the spikes were human 
 skulls with staring eyes; the doors had human legs for doorposts, human hands for bolts, and a mouth with sharp 
 teeth in place of a lock. Vasilisa was numb with horror and stood rooted to the spot. Suddenly another horseman 
 rode by. He was all black, he was dressed in black, and his horse was black. He galloped up to Baba Yaga's door 
 and vanished, as though the earth had swallowed him up-night came. But the darkness did not last long. The eyes 
 of all the skulls on the fence began to gleam and the glade was as bright as day. Vasilisa shuddered with fear, 
 but not knowing where to run, remained on the spot. 
 Soon a terrible noise resounded through the woods; the trees crackled, the dry leaves rustled; from the woods 
 Baba 
 
  
 Yaga drove out in a mortar, prodding it on with a pestle, and sweeping her traces with a hroom. She rode up to 
 the gate, stopped, and sniffing the air around her, cried: "Fie, fie! I smell a Russian smell! Who is here?" 
 Vasilisa came up to the old witch and, trembling with fear, bowed low to her and said: "It is I, grandmother. My
 stepsisters sent me to get some light." "Very well," said Baba Yaga. "I know them, but before I give you the 
 light you must live with me and work for me; if not, I will eat you up." Then she turned to the gate and cried: 
 "Hey, my strong bolts, unlock! Open up, my wide gate!" The gate opened, and Baba Yaga drove in whistling. 
 Vasilisa followed her, and then everything closed again.
 Having entered the room, Baba Yaga stretched herself out in her chair and said to Vasilisa: "Serve me what is in
 the stove; I am hungry." Vasilisa lit a torch from the skulls on the fence and began to serve Yaga the food from
 the stove-and enough food had been prepared for ten people. She brought kvass, mead, beer, and wine from the 
 cellar. 
 
 The old witch ate and drank everything, leaving for Vasilisa only a little cabbage soup, a crust of bread, and a 
 piece of pork. Then Baba Yaga made ready to go to bed and said: "Tomorrow after I go, see to it that you sweep 
 the yard, clean the hut, cook the dinner, wash the linen, and go to the cornbin and sort out a bushel of wheat. 
 And let everything be done, or I will eat you up!" Having given these orders, Baba Yaga began to snore. Vasilisa 
 set the remnants of the old witch's supper before her doll, wept bitter tears, and said: "Here dolly, eat, and 
 aid me in my need! Baba Yaga has given me a hard task to do and threatens to eat me up if I do not do it all. 
 Help me!" The doll answered: "Fear not, Vasilisa the Beautiful! Eat your supper, say your prayers, and go to 
 sleep; the morning is wiser than the evening."
 Very early next morning Vasilisa awoke, after Baba Yaga had arisen, and looked out of the window. The eyes of 
 the skulls were going out; then the white horseman flashed by, and it was daybreak. Baba Yaga went out into the 
 yard, whistled, and the mortar, pestle, and broom appeared before her. The red horseman flashed by, and the sun 
 rose. Baba Yaga sat in the mortar, prodded it on with the pestle, and swept her traces with the
 
 broom. Vasilisa remained alone, looked about Baba Yaga's hut, was amazed at the abundance of everything, and 
 stopped wondering which work she should do first. For lo and behold, all the work was done; the doll was picking 
 the last shreds of chaff from the wheat. "Ah my savior," said Vasilisa to her doll, "you have delivered me from 
 death." "All you have to do," answered the doll, creeping into Vasilisa's pocket, "is to cook the dinner; cook 
 it with the help of God and then rest, for your health's sake."
 When evening came Vasilisa set the table and waited for Baba Yaga. Dusk began to fall, the black horseman 
 flashed by the gate, and night came; only the skulls' eyes were shining. The trees crackled, the leaves rustled; 
 Baba Yaga was coming. Vasilisa met her. "Is everything done?" asked Yaga. "Please see for yourself, grandmother
 ," said Vasilisa. Baba Yaga looked at everything, was annoyed that there was nothing she could complain about, 
 and said: "Very well, then." Then she cried: "My faithful servants, my dear friends, grind my wheat!" Three 
 pairs of hands appeared, took the wheat, and carried it out of sight. Baba Yaga ate her fill, made ready to go 
 to sleep, and again gave her orders to Vasilisa. "Tomorrow," she commanded, "do the same work you have done 
 today, and in addition take the poppy seed from the bin and get rid of the dust, grain by grain; someone threw 
 dust into the bins out of spite." Having said this, the old witch turned to the wall and began to snore, and 
 Vasilisa set about feeding her doll. The doll ate, and spoke as she had spoken the day before: "Pray to God and 
 go to sleep; the morning is wiser than the evening. Everything will be done, Vasilisushka."
 Next morning Baba Yaga again left the yard in her mortar, and Vasilisa and the doll soon had all the work done. 
 The old witch came back, looked at everything, and cried: "My faithful servants, my dear friends, press the oil 
 out of the poppy seed!" Three pairs of hands appeared, topk the poppy seed, and carried it out of sight. Baba 
 Yaga sat down to dine; she ate, and Vasilisa stood silent. "Why do you not speak to me?" said Baba Yaga. "You 
 stand there as though you were dumb." "I did not dare to speak," said Vasilisa, "but if you'll give me leave,
 
 I'd like to ask you something." "Go ahead. But not every question has a good answer; if you know too much, you 
 will soon grow old." "I want to ask you, grandmother, only about what I have seen. As I was on my way to you, a 
 horseman on a white horse, all white himself and dressed in white, overtook me. Who is he?" "He is my bright day
 ," said Baba Yaga. "Then another horseman overtook me; he had a red horse, was red himself, and was dressed in 
 red. Who is he?" "He is my red sun." "And who is the black horseman whom I met at your very gate, grandmother?" 
 "He is my dark night-and all of them are my faithful servants."
 Vasilisa remembered the three pairs of hands, but kept silent. "Why don't you ask me more?" said Baba Yaga. 
 "That will be enough," Vasilisa replied. "You said yourself, grandmother, that one who knows too much will grow 
 old soon." "It is well," said Baba Yaga, "that you ask only about what you have seen outside my house, not 
 inside my house; I do not like to have my dirty linen washed in public, and I eat the overcurious. Now I shall 
 ask you something. How do you manage to do the work I set for you?" "I am helped by the blessing of my mother," 
 said Vasilisa. "So that is what it is," shrieked Baba Yaga. "Get you gone, blessed daughter! I want no blessed 
 ones in my house!" She dragged Vasilisa out of the room and pushed her outside the gate, took a skull with 
 burning eyes from the fence, stuck it on a stick, and gave it to the girl, saying: "Here is your light for your 
 stepsisters. Take it; that is what they sent you for."
 Vasilisa ran homeward by the light of the skull, which went out only at daybreak, and by nightfall of the 
 following day she reached the house. As she approached the gate, she was about to throw the skull away, thinking 
 that surely they no longer needed a light in the house. But suddenly a dull voice came from the skull, saying: 
 "Do not throw me away, take me to your stepmother." She looked at the stepmother's house and, seeing that there 
 was no light in the windows, decided to enter with her skull. For the first time she was received kindly. Her 
 stepmother and stepsisters told her that since she had left they had had no fire in the house; they were unable 
 to strike a flame themselves, and whatever light was brought by the neighbors went out the moment it was brought 
 into the house. "Perhaps your fire will last," said the stepmother. The skull was brought into the room, and its 
 eyes kept staring at the stepmother and her daughters, and burned them. They tried to hide, but wherever they 
 went the eyes followed them. By morning they were all burned to ashes; only Vasilisa remained untouched by the 
 fire.
 In the morning Vasilisa buried the skull in the ground, locked up the house, and went to the town. A certain 
 childless old woman gave her shelter, and there she lived, waiting for her father's return. One day she said to 
 the woman: "I am weary of sitting without work, grandmother. Buy me some flax, the best you can get; at least I 
 shall be spinning." The old woman bought good flax and Vasilisa set to work. She spun as fast as lightning and 
 her threads were even and thin as a hair. She spun a great deal of yarn; it was time to start weaving it, but no
 comb fine enough for Vasilisa's yarn could be found, and no one would undertake to make one. Vasilisa asked her 
 doll for aid. The doll said: "Bring me an old comb, an old shuttle, and a horse's mane; I will make a loom for  
 you." Vasilisa got everything that was required and went to sleep, and during the night the doll made a 
 wonderful loom for her.
 By the end of the winter the linen was woven, and it was so fine that it could be passed through a needle like a 
 thread. In the spring the linen was bleached, and Vasilisa said to the old woman: "Grandmother, sell this linen 
 and keep the money for yourself." The old woman looked at the linen and gasped: "No, my child! No one can wear 
 such linen except the tsar; I shall take it to the palace." The old woman went to the tsar's palace and walked 
 back and forth beneath the windows. The tsar saw her and asked: "What do you want, old woman?" "Your Majesty," 
 she answered, "I have brought rare merchandise; I do not want to show it to anyone but you." The tsar ordered 
 her to be brought before him, and when he saw the linen he was amazed. "What do you want for it?" asked the tsar.
 
 "It has no price, little father tsar! I have brought it as a gift to you." The tsar thanked her and rewarded her 
 with gifts.
 
 The tsar ordered shirts to be made of the linen. It was cut, but nowhere could they find a seamstress who was 
 willing to sew them. For a long time they tried to find one, but in the end the tsar summoned the old woman and 
 said: "You have known how to spin and weave such linen, you must know how to sew shirts of it." "It was not I 
 that spun and wove this linen, Your Majesty," said the old woman. "This is the work of a maiden to whom I give 
 shelter." "Then let her sew the shirts," ordered the tsar.
 The old woman returned home and told everything to Vasilisa. "I knew all the time," said Vasilisa to her, "that 
 I would have to do this work." She locked herself in her room and set to work; she sewed without rest and soon a 
 dozen shirts were ready. The old woman took them to the tsar, and Vasilisa washed herself, combed her hair, 
 dressed in her finest clothes, and sat at the window. She sat there waiting to see what would happen. She saw a 
 servant of the tsar entering the courtyard. The messenger came into the room and said: "The tsar wishes to see 
 the needlewoman who made his shirts, and wishes to reward her with his own hands." Vasilisa appeared before the 
 tsar. When the tsar saw Vasilisa the Beautiful he fell madly in love with her. "No, my beauty," he said, "I will 
 not separate from you; you shall be my wife." He took Vasilisa by her white hands, seated her by his side, and 
 the wedding was celebrated at once. Soon Vasilisa's father returned, was overjoyed at her good fortune, and came 
 to live in his daughter's house. Vasilisa took the old woman into her home too, and carried her doll in her 
 pocket till the end of her life.
