In a certain kingdom , in a certain state is alive and visited one Buhtan Buhtanovich ; Buhtana Buhtanovicha have been 
built among a field oven on poles . It lies on the stove over polulokot cockroaches in milk. Fox came to him and said: " 
Buhtan Buhtanovich , if he likes , I'll marry the king 's daughter ? " - " What are you , Liska " - " Do you have any 
money ? " - " Yes : I have only one penny . " - " Give me one and here ! " Fox went on the penny has exchanged a little 
money - on a dime , money and mite , went to the king and said, " King, a free man ! Give the quadrangle , in Buhtana 
Buhtanovicha smerit money . " He says : "Take ." She brought home, money , penny shoved for hoop and brought to the king 
and said, " King, a free man ! Quadrangular little ; give polymers are , the money Buhtana Buhtanovicha smerit . " - " 
Take it ."

She picked up and brought home, money , penny shoved for hoop and brought to the king , " King, a free man ! Polymers 
are little , give a measure . " - "Take the measure ." She took it, and brought home the rest of the penny shoved for 
hoops and brought to the king . King says, " whether death , Liska ? " Liska said: " All vtsele1 . Well , the king , a 
free man ! I came to you for a good cause : Give your daughter for Buhtana Buhtanovicha . " - " Okay, did you show me 
the groom ." She pobegla home. " Buhtan Buhtanovich ! Do you have any clothes? Put ". Buhtan Buhtanovich oboloksya2 
lisoyu and went with the king. Go to the series, and led them to go on the bridge - so dirty ! Liska shoved him and 
Buhtan Buhtanovich tumbled into the dirt. She resorted to him , "What are you saying , Buhtan Buhtanovich ? " And she is 
just mud - it messed . "Wait just Buhtan Buhtanovich ! I 'll run to the king . "

Liska resorted to the king and said, " King, a free man ! We walked to the bridge Buhtanom Buhtanovichem - a bridge 
nasty ! - We somehow not postereglis , sunken ; Buhtan Buhtanovich whole Mess ; go something bad in the city, whether 
you dress ezhedennogo ? "-" Here, take this . " Liska pobegla . Resorted . " Buhtan Buhtanovich ! On , let's go 
pereobolokis3 yes . " Came to the king . The king was already on the table nalazheno4 . Buhtan Buhtanovich nowhere looks 
like themselves , - he has never seen it this dress! King and blinked Liske : " Liska it Buhtan Buhtanovich something 
nowhere looks like for yourself? " - " King, a free man ! He seems a shame that it eco dress ; Buhtan Buhtanovich ekogo 
dresses that he has never worn before crappy . King, a free man ! Give him what dress that you wear in the passover . " 
And she whispered and Buhtanu Buhtanovichu : " Do not look at yourself! " Buhtan Buhtanovich again looks nowhere that 
chair : the chair was gilded . Liske king whispered , " Liska it Buhtan Buhtanovich nowhere looks that chair? " - " King 
free

people ! Their chairs ekogo something for a lot of baths . " King of pop chair at the door. Liska Buhtanu Buhtanovichu 
whispered : " Do not look in one place ; lo amplitude inudy5 yes ." Well, then they started to talk about doing good , 
for Matchmaking .

Well, the wedding had been , for a long time whether the king ? Neither beer brew or wine smoking, you're done. Buhtanu 
Buhtanovichu three ships loaded , and went home on ships. Go home : Buhtan Buhtanovich rides on ships with Genco and 
Liska runs along the shore . Buhtan Buhtanovich saw his stove and skrichal " Liska , Liska ! Evodia something my oven "
-" Shut up, Buhtan Buhtanovich ; ashamed! " Buhtan Buhtanovich rides and Liska ahead runs along the shore resorted 
advance vyznyalas on ugor6 stands on eel prebolshuschy stone house , and the kingdom was enormous . She's in the house - 
there was nobody in the house , zabegla to the House - lies in the large corner - stretched Zmeevich Serpent , sitting 
on the furnace column Varanovich Raven , sitting on the throne Kokot Kokotovich7 . Liska says, "What are you sitting 
here ! King is coming with fire, with the queen malaney8 , burn and you slept . " - " Liska , where are we? " - " Kokot 
Kokotovic , I suppose you're in a barrel ! " Liska locked in a barrel Kotoko Kokotovic . "The Raven Varanovich , I 
suppose you're in a stupa , come on! " 9 Crow Woronowicz locked in a stupa ; Snake Zmeevicha in straw whirled and made 
to Ulku . Ships came . Liska ordered into the water take away all of them; kazaki10 now taken to the water.

Buhtan Buhtanovich in that house all his worldly moved there lived happily ever after , good profiteers , reigned 
supreme , yes there and belly died.









footnotes

Footnote on page 315

1 intact.

Dressed 2 .

3 disguise .

4 cooked.
