nce there was an old man so old , the children they were not. So what they do, no matter how prayed, and the old woman 
gave birth all . Once the old man went to the forest for mushrooms, caught his dear old grandfather . "I know - he says 
- what's on your mind , you're thinking about children . Go and around the village , collect from each household on egg 
and put on those eggs klushku1 , what will he see ? " The old man returned to the village , they are even in the village
was forty one yard , so he went through all the yards, collected from each
by broody hen egg and put on forty one egg . Two weeks passed , looking old man and the old woman looks - and of those 
eggs had been born boys , forty strong , Zdorovenki and one failed - but healing is weak ! Became an old man to give the
names of the boys , all gave a last name is not bugged . "Well, - he says - be thou Zamoryshek ! "

Grow at an Old Babes , growing by leaps and bounds ; rose and started working , helping his father with his mother ; 
forty fellows in the potter and Zamoryshek home managed. It's time haying ; brothers mowed grass , stack set , worked 
for a week and returned to the village , ate that God sent him, and went to bed. The old man looks up and says: "Young 
-green ! Eat a lot , sleep tight , and things , I suppose, did not do anything ! "-" And you see before , sir ! "- 
Responds Zamoryshek . The old man went to the shells and meadows ; looked - forty stacks sour cream : " Ah yes, well 
done guys ! How much for one week and you stacked in stacks swept away . "

The next day the old man again met in the meadows , I wanted to enjoy their possessions , came - and one stack is gone !
Came home and said: " Oh , baby! After one stack something missing . " - "Nothing , sir ! - Responsible Zamoryshek . - 
We catch this thief , give me a hundred rubles , and I'll do business . " Father took a hundred rubles , and went to the
blacksmith : "Can I forge a chain , so enough from head to toe entwine man? " - " Why not tie down " - " Behold , do 
stronger , if the chain stand - one hundred rubles pay and if burst - Lost your work ! " blacksmith forged iron chain ; 
Zamoryshek wrapped it around , pulled - and she snapped. Blacksmith made ​​twice as strong , well , that was suitable . 
Zamoryshek took this chain , paid a hundred rubles and went hay guard , sat under a stack and waits .

That's the most midnight rose weather vskolyhalos sea, and out of the sea depth wonderful mare ran to the first haystack
and began to devour the hay. Zamoryshek jumped obrotal its iron chain and sat astride . Became his mare knocks down dale
, through the mountains to wear , no, can not knock the rider ! She stopped and said to him : " Well, my good fellow , 
when you managed to sit on me , then take - Rule over my colts ." Mare ran to the blue sea and whinnied loudly ; then 
vskolyhalosya blue sea and came ashore forty one stallion , horse horse better! All light izoydi , such you will not 
find anywhere else ! In the morning, the old man in the court hears the neighing , tramping ; what ? but it was his son 
drove a herd Zamoryshek . "It's great - he says - brothers! Now we all have to have a horse , let's go look for my bride
. " - " Let's go ! " My father and mother blessed them, and the brothers went on their way away.

Long they went to the white light , but where many brides find it? Separately to marry does not want anyone hurt was not
, and what mother boast that she had just forty one daughter of the people ? Fellows drove to distant lands ; look : a 
steep mountain face white stone chamber , encircled by a high wall , at the gates of iron poles supplied. Counted - 
forty one pole. Here they are tied to those

stakes his heroic horses and go to court. Meets their Baba Yaga : " Oh, you uninvited , unwelcome ! How dare you demand 
without tethering horses ? "-" Well, old thing screaming? Sing before you feed - in bath vault, so after about lead and 
ask . " Baba Yaga fed them , watered , and kept her in the bath began to ask , "What good fellows, il make is trying to 
Lytaev business ? " - " Make is trying , Grandma! " - " Why are you looking for? " - " Yes, brides are looking for . " - "I have a daughter ," - says the Baba Yaga , rushed into the high towers and brought forty one maiden .

Here they are betrothed , started drinking , walking , weddings celebrate . Zamoryshek evening went to see his horse . 
Saw him a good horse and a human voice murmured : "Look, boss! As you lie down to sleep with young wives , dress them in
their dresses , and put themselves and their wives , not all perish ! " Zamoryshek said that the brothers , they dressed 
young women in their dresses , and themselves dressed in his wife's and went to sleep. All were asleep, only Zamoryshek 
eye closes . In the very midnight Baba Yaga shouted a loud voice : " Hey, you , my faithful servant ! Mince intruders exuberant head . " Faithful servants ran and cut off the head exuberant daughters hags . Zamoryshek roused his brothers and told them everything that was , they took the severed heads stuck on iron spokes range of wall , then mounted their horses and rode hastily .

Morning Baba Yaga stood , looked at the window - range of wall stick to the spokes child 's head ; scared she embittered
, ordered to bring his fire shield , jumped in and began to chase shield firing on all four sides . Where fellows hide? 
Ahead of the blue sea behind Baba Yaga - and burns and scorches ! Would all die , yes Zamoryshek dogadliv was not forgot
to grab it from Baba Yaga's handkerchief waved his handkerchief to those in front of him - and suddenly spread across 
the bridge all the blue sea , the good fellows have moved to the other side . Zamoryshek waved his handkerchief in a
different direction - the bridge disappeared , Baba Yaga gate back and brothers went home.
