There was once a poor peasant ; much he worked , no matter how much work - all nothing ! "Oh , - thinks to himself , - 
share my bitter ! All days after the farm to kill, and that and see - will die of hunger ; but my neighbor my whole life 
is on your side , and what happens? - Agriculture big profits in your pocket swim themselves . I think I was not pleased 
God , I 'll be in the morning until the evening prayer , perhaps the Lord and mercy . " He began to pray to God , for 
whole days on hunger strike , and all praying. Came bright holiday hit for matins . Poor thinking, " All men will become 
razgavlivatsya , and I have no piece , no! Go fetch water though - instead uzho pohlebat ing . " Took the bucket , went 
to the well and just tossed into the water - suddenly hit him in the bucket tremendous pike . Overjoyed man : " Here I 
am on a holiday! Nawar soup and relish have lunch . " Pike tells him in a human voice : " Let go of me , my good man , 
the will , and I will do you happy : what your soul desires, all you will ! Just say on the Pike , by God's blessing 
come forth this and that - will be now ! " Poky threw pike into the well, came into the house , sat down at the table 
and says," as if by magic , by God's blessing be a table set and dinner is ready ! " Suddenly out of that came from - 
appeared on the table all sorts of food and drink , though the king treat, so do not be ashamed ! Poky crossed : " Thank 
God ! There is something to break the fast . " Went to church, defended matins and liturgy , returned and became 
razgavlivatsya ; - bit drunk , out of the gate and sat down on a bench .

At the time taken in head princess walk through the streets , going to their nannies and mother , and for the sake of 
Christ prazdnichka distributes alms to the poor , all filed , and about this peasant , and forgotten . So he says to 
himself: " By the Pike , by God's blessing let the princess bear fruit of itself , and bear a son ! " By the word 
princess in that w zabryuhatela minute and nine months later gave birth to a son. King began to interrogate her . " 
Admit it - he says - who sinned ? " And the princess crying and otherwise swears that no one sinned : " And she do not 
know, what God will punish me ! " How the king nor probed do not know anything .

Meanwhile, the boy by leaps and bounds growing ; week later began to speak . The king summoned from all the kingdoms of 
the boyars and duma people , showing them the boy if he does not recognize anyone as a father ? No , the boy is silent , 
no name-calling is not the father . King commanded nannies and mother carry him all the courts , through the streets and 
prove to people of all ranks and married and unmarried . Nurse nurse and child suffered by all the yards , through the 
streets , but walked , walked, he is silent. Come finally to the poor peasant hut ; once saw a boy that guy , now 
reached out her little hands and shouted, " Daddy , daddy ! " They reported about that sovereign, led to the palace 
wretched , the king became his questioning : " Confess to the net conscience - this is your baby? "-" No, God ! "

The king was angry , the princess married the wretched , and after the wedding ordered to put them together with the 
child in a large barrel , tar and pitch to put to sea.

That floated barrel on the sea, suffered its violent winds and nailed to the far shore . Hears the poor , that the water 
does not move under them , and says this is the word: " By the Pike , by God's blessing FALL , barrel, dry place! " 
Barrel collapsed , they got out on a dry place and went aimlessly. They walked and walked , walked , walked , eat and 
drink something, princess quite emaciated , barely leg interchanges . "What - asks poor - you know now , what hunger and 
thirst ? " - " I know ! " - Meets princess . " That's it , and the poor tormented , and you did not want me on the day 
of Christ and submit milostynki ! " Then he said to poor " by magic , by God's blessing become rich palace here - that 
is better in the whole world was not, and with gardens , and ponds, and with all sorts of extensions ! "

Only uttered - was rich palace , run out of the palace servants loyal , take them by the hand , lead to the Chamber of 
white stone and put in oak tables , tablecloths for battle. Strangely in the wards cleaned decked out , on the tables of 
all nagotovleno : and wine, and sweets and dishes. Squalid princess drank , ate , rested and went for a walk in the 
garden . "Everyone here is good - says princess - just a pity that there is no bird on our ponds ." - " Wait a minute , 
there will be a bird! " - And immediately posted poor uttered : "On the Pike , by God's blessing let float on the pond 
this twelve ducks, drakes thirteenth - all they would have been another feather in gold, another silver , was yes had 
drake forelock on the head diamond ! " look - floating on the water twelve ducks and drake - one feather gold , another 
silver , at the head of a diamond in a drake forelock .

That's it princess lives with her ​​husband, without sorrow , without sorrow , and her son grows so grows , grew large , 
sensed a great power and became the father , the mother ask to go through the world so look for a bride. They released 
him , "Go , my son, with God ! " He saddled athletic horse, sat down and went on their way . Comes to meet him, the old 
crone , "Hello , Russian prince ! Where wilt go ? "-" Food, grandmother of the bride to look and where to look - and I 
know not myself . " - " Wait, I 'll tell you , my child ! Go you for sea tridesyatom kingdom ; there princess - so 
beautiful that all the light has traveled all over , and it is better not find her anywhere ! " Good lad thanked the old 
woman came to the wharf , hired a ship and sailed tridesyatom kingdom.

Long or short it floated on the sea he soon easier said than done - it arrives in the kingdom , came to the king and 
became tamoshnem for his daughter woo . King said to him : " You're not the one for my daughter Woo , we have another 
groom - silnomoguchy hero , if he refuse , he will destroy my country ." - " And I refuse - I am ruined ! " - " What! 
Pit better with him by the power of any one of you will win , and for that I will give a daughter . " - " Okay ! 
Convenes all the kings and princes , kings and prince on a fair fight to look at a wedding a walk . "

Immediately sent messengers were in different directions than one year , as gathered from all the neighboring lands 
kings and princes , kings and prince ; came and that king that his own daughter in a barrel tarred yes let in the sea . 
On the appointed day came warriors fight to the death , fought , fought , from their blows land moaned inclined forests 
, rivers worried ; princess son mastered his suprotivnika - carried with him violent head.

Then ran royal nobles , took good man by the arm and led him into the palace , the next day he married the princess , 
and as otpirovali wedding, he called all the kings and princes , kings and the prince to visit his father and mother . 
Rose all at once , outfitted ships and sailed across the sea . The princess and her husband met with the guests of honor
, and began again feasts so fun . Kings and princes , kings and Prince look at the palace , the gardens and divuyutsya : 
such wealth is nowhere to be seen, but most of all they seemed to duck and drake - for one duck can give half my kingdom 
! Otpirovali guests and heads to go home , they do not have time to get to the pier , run them as ambulances messengers 
: "Our de boss asks you to come back back , you want to keep the Privy Council ."

Kings and princes , kings and Prince gate back , made ​​them master and began to speak : "Is it good that way people do 
? After I lost duck ! Okromya nobody take you "-" What do you platoon slander ? - Respond to him kings and princes , 
kings and prince . - This case is unseemly ! Search the all now ! If you find someone duck , do with it what you know , 
and if not find, your head off! "-" Well, I agree! "- Said the host , went on a number of them and began to search , as 
soon as it was my turn tsarevnina father , and he quietly uttered : " by the Pike , by God's blessing let this king 
under his coat coat is tied duck ! " Took , he lifted his coat and under his coat as it is tied weft - one gold pen , 
the other silver . Then all the other kings and princes , kings and prince laughed loudly , " Ha ha ha! That's what ! 
Already kings began to steal ! " Tsarevnin father swears by all the saints that stealing - and he did not mean to ; but 
as it got a duck - and that he does not know . " Tell me ! Do you find , then, you're the one to blame . " Then came the 
princess , ran to her father and admitted that she is the same his daughter, whom he gave in marriage miserable and put 
in barrels of tar : "Father ! You did not believe my words then , and now currently on spoznal that one can be guilty 
without guilt . " Told him , as it was , and after all they began to live together happily ever after , acquire good and dashing izbyvat .
