In a certain kingdom , in a country , there lived a king : and the king of the yard was a pole, and in this post three 
rings : one gold , the other silver , copper and third . One night the king dreamed a dream : that in a gold ring was 
tied horse - that no strand of wool , then serebrinka and forehead bright month. In the morning he got up and ordered to 
click cry : who will judge the dream and the horse would get it for that I will give my daughter and half the kingdom to 
boot. Arrived at the royal cry many princes , nobles and all the gentlemen , thought - thought - no one can explain to 
sleep , no one can control the horse .

Finally the king was told that such and such a poor old man has a son Ivan, who can explain to sleep and get a horse . 
The king ordered to summon him . Called Ivan . The king asked him , " Have you had judged my sleep and get at whether 
the horse ? " Ivan replied: " Tell me in advance that this dream and what you hath need of a horse ? " King says: "In 
the last night I dreamed , though at a gold ring in my yard horse was tied - that no strand of wool , then serebrinka 
and forehead bright month. " - "This is not a dream , and profit , because last night on this horse came to you twelve- 
snakes and wanted to steal the princess ." - " Is it possible to get this horse ? " Ivan replied: " It is possible - 
only as a blow to me fifteen years." While Ivan was only twelve godochkov , the king took him to the palace , fed and 
watered to fifteen .

Here's how Ivan passed fifteen years, he said to the king : " Come on, sir, I horse that can be used to get to the place 
where the snake is ." King led him to the stables and showed all their horses ;


Only he could not choose one on the force of gravity and how to impose that his horse heroic hand , and she will fall. 
And he said to the king: " Let me go into the open field to look to itself under the force of the horse ." King let him 
go .

Ivan the peasant's son was looking for three years , could not find anywhere else . Comes with tears back to the king . 
Comes to meet him, the old man and asked: " What are you , a guy crying? " He on his demand rudely replied simply drove 
away from you , the old man said: "Look , boy, do not remember me ." Ivan walked away from a little old man , thought to 
himself : "For an old man that I hurt you? Old people know a lot . " Gate, caught the old man fell at his feet and said 
: "Grandpa , I'm sorry , with aroused by offended you . I cry about it: three years I went up on the field for different 
herds - nowhere could find on their own horse. " The old man replied: " Come at a certain village , there at the stables 
peasant worth mare , and from that mare foal been born lousy , you take it and bring up : he'll be a force." Ivan bowed 
to the old man and went to the village .


Comes to the man right in the stable, he saw a mare with foal lousy and imposed order foal hand. Not in the least 
porobil1 foal and he took it from a farmer , fed for some time , came to the king and told him how the horse has 
extracted itself . Then he began to visit sryazhatsya snake. The king asked : " How old are you , Ivan the peasant's son 
, I must force? " Ivan replied : " What do I need your strength ? I can get one , except for parcels let six people . " 
The king granted him six people , behold , they got together and went.

Long or short it they went - nobody knows , knows only that they came to the fiery river, over the river bridge lies , 
and around the river a huge forest. In the forest they pitched a tent , got different drinks, began to eat, drink , be 
merry. Ivan the peasant's son says to his comrades: " Come on, guys , every night turns to guard not be anyone to pass 
through this river ? " It happened like this: whoever is going out of his comrades to keep guard , every drunk drunk in 
the evening and did not see anything .

Finally went to guard Ivan the peasant's son ; looks : midnight rides into the river snakes through three heads and 
delivers voice , "No me neither debater nor backbiters , unless there is a debater and backbiters - Ivan the peasant's 
son , and that crows in the bladder bones not swing ! " Ivan the peasant's son jumped out from under the bridge :" 
you're lying ! I'm here . " - " And if you are here , then let 's argue ." And drove the snakes against Ivan on 
horseback, on foot and Ivan spoke , swung his sword and cut down all three snake heads, and the horse took myself and 
tied at the tent .

On another night Ivan the peasant's son killed six-headed serpent , on the third night The nine and threw them into the 
river of fire . And it started to watch on the fourth night , it came to him twelve- snakes and spoke angrily , "Who is 
this Ivan the peasant's son? Now come out to me! Why beat my sons ? " Ivan the peasant's son

speech and said : "Let me go ahead to his tent , and after going to fight ," - "Okay, go! " Ivan ran to his comrades : " 
Well, guys , here's pelvis , look into it , and when it is full of blood pour , come to me . " Returned and became 
against snake , and when they broke up and hit , then Ivan felled the first time in four snake heads , and the knee-deep 
in the earth went away a second time went - Ivan three heads cut down , and the waist-deep in the ground is gone ; the 
third time went - three heads compartment , he went up to his chest , and finally one cut down - on the neck left. Then 
just vspomyanuli about him comrades, seeing in the pelvis and saw blood pouring over the edge , ran and cut down in the 
last snake head, and Ivan pulled out of the ground . Ivan the peasant's son took his horse and took the snake to the 
tent .

That night was over , it was morning , good fellows began to eat, drink , be merry. Ivan the peasant's son got up from 
the fun and told his teammates : " You guys , I wait ! " - And he turned around a cat , went to the bridge over the 
river of fire , came to the house where the snake lived , and became friends with the local cats. And in the whole house 
survived only zmeiha herself and three of her daughters in law , they sit in the upper chamber and said among themselves 
: " How can we make the villain Ivan the peasant 's son ruin ? " Small -in-law says, " Where would neither drove Ivan 
the peasant's son , to do way hunger , and she oborochus apple , how he eats an apple, now break it! " Avg said :" I 
will do to their thirst and oborochus pit ; let him try to drink! " elder said," and I will bring the dream , and she 
shall become bed , if Ivan the peasant's son to lie down now die ! " Finally she said in-law :" I Razin their mouth from 
earth to heaven , and shall devour them all ! " Ivan the peasant's son listened to everything they said , came out of 
the room , he turned man and came to his comrades : " Well, boys , sryazhaytes in the way! "

Gathered , went on a journey, and for the first time on the road has become a terrible famine , so that there was 
nothing to eat , they see - worth apple ; Ivanov comrades wanted to pick apples , but Ivan did not tell . "This , - he 
says - not apple " - and began to hack , apple of blood flowed . The second time attacked them thirst Ivan saw a well, 
not ordered a drink, began his hack - from the well blood flowed . The third time attacked them sleep; stands on the 
road bed, Ivan and hacked . They drove up to the mouth , gaping from earth to heaven , what to do? Heads to fall through 
with flying into the ride . Nobody could jump , only one jumped Ivan the peasant's son : rendered him out of trouble a 
wonderful horse - that no strand of wool , then serebrinka and forehead bright month.

He came to a river, in the same river stands izbenka . Here comes towards him peasant himself with finger mustache seven 
miles and tells him : "Give me a horse , and if you will not give honor nasilkoy then take it! " Ivan replied : " Get 
off me , you damned bastard, you pokudova horse crushed ! " Little man himself with finger mustache seven miles knocked 
him to the ground , got on his horse and left. Ivan enters into izbenku much about horse and grieves . In the izbenke 
lies on the stove - armless , legless and Ivan says : "Listen, my good fellow - I do not know how to call you by your 
name , why you contacted
to fight it? I was sort of hero , like you , and besides, it is in my hands and feet otel "-" For what? "-" And for that 
I am he ate bread on the table ! " Ivan began to ask , how would back to get the horse ? Tells him armless , legless , 
"Go to such and such a river , pick transportation , transports three years , or with money who do not take it , then 
perhaps get one ! "

Ivan the peasant's son worshiped him , went to the river ferry and took three years transported without payment . Once 
it happened to him to carry the three old men , they give him money, he does not take. " Tell me, my good fellow , why 
do not you take the money ? " He replied: " For the promise ." - " On what ? " - " I impish man rescued horse , so I 
kind people taught me to transportation and three years removed from anybody did not take the money ." The old people 
said, " Perhaps , Ivan the peasant's son , we are ready to serve you - get your horse ." - "Help, my dears ! " Old men 
were not ordinary people : it was Studenetz , glutton and a sorcerer . Sorcerer came ashore , the boat drew in the sand 
and said: " Well , my friends, do you see this boat ? " - " Visible " - " Take it ." All four sat in the boat . Sorcerer
says : " Well , light boat , concelebrated with me as before served ."

Suddenly the boat rose in the air and in a flash , like an arrow fired from a bow , brought them to a large rocky 
mountain . In this mountain home is worth , and live in the house himself with the finger , and a mustache for seven 
miles. Ivan sent elders to ask the horse . Ivan began to ask the horse ; peasant himself with finger mustache seven 
miles told him, " stolen from the king's daughter and bring to me, then give the horse ." Ivan said about what his 
comrades , and immediately they left him , and went themselves to the king . Come , the king learned of mail they 
arrived and ordered his servants istopit bath , hot glow let de suffocate ! After the guests asked the bath they thanked
her and went. Sorcerer told beforehand Studentsov go. Studenetz went to the bath and cool , so they cleaned up , 
evaporated and came to the king . The king ordered a big dinner to serve; any set of dishes on the table was served. 
Glutton began and all ate . Night guests gathered quietly stolen princess , brought himself to the little man with the 
finger mustache seven miles ; princess gave him , and rescued horse .

Ivan the peasant's son bowed old men , mounted his horse and rode to the king . Driving - driving , stopped to rest in 
an open field , pitched the tent and lay hold opochil . Woke up , grabbed - princess lies beside him . He was delighted 
, and began to ask her : "How pleased here ? " Princess said : "I am so turnover pin stuck in your collar ." That train 
of revolutions per minute she again pin ; Ivan the peasant's son stuck it into the collar and drove on. Come to the king
, the king saw the wondrous horse, takes good man with honor and tells how he stole daughter . Ivan says : " Do not 
worry , sire ! I brought it back . " Went into another room , a beautiful maiden princess turnover . Ivan took her by 
the hand and led to the king . King even more glad, took his horse , and his daughter gave married Ivan the peasant 's 
son . Ivan and still lives with his young wife.
