
Not in any realm , not in what state was the king lived , the queen , and they had one daughter, Princess Maria . And as
the queen died , the king took another wife , Yagishnu . Do Yagishny had two daughters : one - Dvoeglazov , and another
- troeglazaya . Stepmother is not for Any Mary - princess, sent her to graze the cow - burenushku and gave her a dry
crust of bread.

The princess went to the open field , in the right leg bowed burenushke - drunk - gorged , good succession , for the cow
- burenushkoy day walks like a lady . The day passed , she again bowed her right leg , exhausted , went home and brought
back crust of bread , put on the table . "The bitch alive lives ? " - Thinks Yagishna , the next day gave Princess Mary
- the same chunk and sends her his great daughter. " Keep an eye than Princess Maria eats ? "

Came into the open field ; Princess Maria says : " Give me, my sister, I'll look at you in the head ." Began to look ,
and she saying: "Sleep , sleep , little sister ! Sleep , sleep , my dear ! Sleep , sleep , eye ! Sleep , sleep , another
one! " My sister fell asleep , and Princess Maria got up and went to the cow - burenushke in right leg bowed drunk -
gorged , good succession and goes all day like a lady . Evening came , Princess Maria is dead and says, " Come on,
sister ! Get up , my dear ! Let's go home . " - " Ohti me ! - Vzgorevalas sister . - I slept all day , did not see
anything , and now the auction mother me! "

Came home , asked her mother , "What saw that ate Princess Maria ? " - " I did not see anything ." Yagishna these swears
at her, gets up in the morning , send troeglazuyu Daughter : " Go and - he says - look, it bitch, eat and drink ? "
Girls came into the open field burenushku mouth ; Princess Maria says : "Sister ! I give you a little head look for . "
- " Look , sister , look , my dear ! " Princess Maria began looking so saying: "Sleep , sleep , little sister ! Sleep ,
sleep , my dear ! Sleep , sleep , eye ! Sleep , sleep , another one! " And about the third eye has forgotten , the third
eye looks on looks that Robit Princess Maria . She ran to burenushke in right leg bowed drunk - gorged , good succession
; sun was riding - she again bowed burenushke , exhausted and well wakes troeglazuyu : " Come on, sister ! Get up , my
dear ! Let's go home . "

Princess Maria came home dry chunk put on the table . Became a mother ask her daughter : " What did she eat and drink ?
" Troeglazaya and told all . Yagishna orders : " Cut , the old man , the cow - burenushku ." The old man stabbed ;
Princess Maria asks : "Give , dear grandfather , though Gusen kishochku me." Threw her old Goosen kishochku ; she took
to put her Veree - Rakitov rose bush, flaunt it

123

sweet berries , sit on it so different ptashechki sing songs royal and peasant .

Prince Ivan had heard about Princess Marya came to her stepmother , put the dish on the table: " That girl plucked me
full dish berries , that take for themselves married ." Yagishna sent her more daughters take berries , birds and her
close do not admit , that and look - his eyes pecked out , sent the other daughter - and that was not given. Released
finally Princess Marya , Princess Maria took the course and went to take the berries , it takes twice as small 
ptashechki yes three times to put the dish ; came , put on the table and gave a nod to Prince . Here cheerful Piercy yes
for Noces ; took Prince Ivan for themselves Marya princess and steel yourself to live happily ever after , good acquire .

Long or a short lived , gave birth to the son of Princess Maria . I wanted to visit her father , and her husband went 
to visit his father . Stepmother obvorotila her goose and her big daughter succession Ivan Tsarevich wife. Prince Ivan returned home. The old man gets up in the morning - Pestun ranehonko , washes belehonko , took the baby in his arms 
and went to the open field to kustochku . Flying geese flying gray . " You are my Geese , geese gray ! Where have you
seen mladenogo1 mother ? "-" In another herd . " Flies another herd . " You are my Geese , geese gray ! Where have you
seen Mladenov mother ? " Mladenogo1 mother on earth Skoch , pulled the hood , pulled the other , took the child in his
arms, began to breast -feed , she cries : " Today pokormlyu tomorrow pokormlyu , and the next day will fly in the dark
forests , high mountains behind ! "

The old man went home , kid asleep woke up in the morning: and spoofed wife swears that the old man walks into the open
field , only son starved ! Old man gets up in the morning again ranehonko , washes belehonko goes with the child in the
open field , and Prince Ivan got up and went unseen for the old man and climbed into the bush . Flying geese flying 
gray. Oklikivaet old man : " you are my geese , gray geese ! Mladenov uterus where seen ? "-" In another herd . " Flies
another herd , " you are my Geese , geese gray ! Where have you seen Mladenov mother ? " Mladenov mother on earth 
Skoch , skin pulled off , pulled the other , looked at the bush and became Mladenov breast feed , began to take leave
with him :" Tomorrow will fly in the dark forests , high mountains behind ! "

Gave the baby to the old man . "What - he says - smorodom2 smell? " Wanted to put on the skin , that's enough - nothing : Ivan Tsarevich burned . He captured Princess Marya , she obvernulas skakuhoy3 , then lizard and every reptile , and
after all vereteshechkom4 . Ivan Tsarevich vereteshko broke in half, threw back heel , toe before themselves - before it
became the young the young women . They went home together . A daughter Yagishny - roaring shouts : " Razoritelnitsa
goes! Pogubitelnitsa goes . " Ivan Tsarevich assembled princes and boyars , asks: "With which his wife was allowed to
live ? " They said: " Since the first ." - " Well , gentlemen, that the wife rather on the gate

124

Skoch , and live with the camp . " Daughter Yagishny Now vzlezla gate , and Princess Maria chapaetsya5 only , and will
not go up . Then Ivan Tsarevich took his gun and shot his wife spoofed , and Marya - princess became the old live
happily , ever after good .

footnotes

Footnote on page 123

1 Child.

2 stench .

3 Frog .

4 spindles .

Footnote on page 124

5 Clings .
