In a certain kingdom , in a country , there lived a king, the king had three sons . Here children and say to him: " My 
dear sir, sir ! Bless us , we 'll go on the hunt . " Father has blessed , and they went in different directions. Small - 
ridden son went and lost his way , goes to the clearing in the glade lies palaya1 horse , about this fall were a lot of 
every animal , bird and reptile . Rose falcon, flew to the Tsarevich sat on his shoulder and said: " Prince Ivan , 
stripped us this horse , she is thirty-three years here , and we all argue , and how to divide - do not come up ." 
Prince dismounted from his horse and shared good carrion beast - bones, birds - meat, leather - reptiles and head - ants
. "Thank you, Ivan Tsarevich ! - Said Falcon . - For this service, can you handle a falcon and clear ant whenever you 
want. "

Prince Ivan hit the wet ground , became clear falcon soared and flew tridesyatom State , and the State is more than half 
drawn into the crystal mountain. Flew into the castle , he turned and asked good fellow courtier custody : "Do not take 
me if your sire to work for yourself? " - " Why did not you take this young man ? " So he went to the king and lives in 
the service of his week , another and third . Begged the princess : "Your Majesty , my father ! Let me with Ivan 
Tsarevich on the crystal mountain walk . " King allowed . They sat on the good horses and drove off. Approaching the 
crystal mountain, suddenly out of nowhere - jumped golden goat. Prince drove her, galloping , galloping , goats are not 
extracted and returned back - and the princess , no! What to do? As to the king for his eyes seem ?

He dressed such ancient old man that can not recognize ; came to the palace and said to the king, "Your Majesty ! Hire 
me herd to graze . " - "Well , be a shepherd ; fly kite if three heads - give him three cows , if the six heads - give 
six cows and the number of the twelve heads - that is counted twelve cows ." Prince Ivan drove a herd of up hill and 
down dale , suddenly flies from Lake snakes three heads : "Ah , Prince Ivan , for what it took you ? Where would fight 
good fellow , and he herd grazes ! Well, - he says - I : cast three cows "-" Not to be bold ? - Meets the prince . - I 
have to eat one sutochki ducks and thou three cows want you ... No no ! " Serpent was angry and grabbed six instead of 
three cows Ivan Tsarevich immediately turned bright falcon , rented a three snake head and drove the herd home . "What , 
grandpa ? - Asks the king . - Whether the three-headed snakes Flew , if he gave three cows ? "-" No, sire , no one gave 
! "

The next day the prince drives a herd of up hill and down dale , arrives from the lake about six heads of snakes and 
requires six cows. " Oh , miracle Yudo gourmand ! I myself eat sutochki one duck, and what you want ! I will not give 
you a single ! " Serpent was angry , instead of six captured twelve cows and Prince turned clear falcon , rushed to the 
snake and took him six goals . Drove home the flock , the king and asks: "What , grandfather, flew six-headed snake if 
much diminished if my herd ? " - " Something flies flew , but did not take anything ! " Late in the evening he turned 
Ivan Tsarevich in ant and through a small crack crawled into a crystal mountain, looking - in a crystal mountain sits 
princess . "Hello, - says Ivan Tsarevich - how did you get here ? " - " I took the twelve heads of snakes , he lives on 
the lake for father , in the trunk snake lurks in the chest - Bunny in a hare - a duck , a duck - egg, in the egg - the 
seed ; if you kill him so get at this seed, in those days can be a crystal mountain lime and spare me . "

Prince Ivan got out of the mountains , shells shepherd and drove a herd . Suddenly arrives snakes heads of the twelve : 
"Ah , Prince Ivan ! Not for his cause took you , what would you, good fellows , fight , and you herd pasesh ... Come to 
me shalt twelve cows "-" Bold will ! I myself eat sutochki one duck , and what you want ! " They started to fight, and 
long or short it fought - Ivan Tsarevich won twelve of the snake heads, cut his torso and on the right side found a 
chest , the chest - Bunny , in a hare - a duck , a duck - egg in an egg - seed. He took the seed , lit and held it to 
the crystal mountain - the mountain soon melted. Prince Ivan brought out the princess and brought her to his father and 
his father rejoiced and said to Prince : " If you were my son in law ! " Here they were married and , at that wedding 
and I was , honey - beer drinking , beard flowed into his mouth did not get .
