In one town lived a merchant with a merchant's wife , and the Lord gave them the son of a year not the clever , named 
Basil . Once the three of them had dinner once , and hung over the table in the cell and so mourning nightingale sang 
that the merchant could not resist and said, " If I find a man who would have guessed I really that nightingale sings 
and what fate portends , I think - when life would give him half of the name , and the death of many good refused . " A 
boy - he was six years old then - saw her father and mother in the eye ozoylivo1 and said, " I know that the nightingale 
sings to say I'm afraid ." - "Speak without reserve " - landed him his mother and father , and Bob uttered with tears : 
"Nightingale foretells that the time will come , the time will you serve me father will be fed water and towel mother - 
face, hands, wipe " . These words hurt upset with merchant merchant's wife , and they decided marketing their offspring 
; built a small boat , in the dark night put in her sleepy boy and let the open sea. At that time, flew out of the cage 
Veshchunov nightingale flew into a boat and sat down on the boy's shoulder.

That floats your boat on the sea , and to meet her ship in full sail flying. Shipman saw the boy , he felt pity and took 
him to her , asked about everything , and promised to hold and love him like a son . On the second day a new boy says to 
his father: "Nightingale de croons that rise up a storm , broken masts, sails burst , must be turned in the encampment 
." But Shipman not listen. Indeed a storm arose , broken masts, sails snapped . Do nothing, past can not be undone ; put 
new masts, sails trimmed and floated on. And again, Bob says: " Nightingale de croons that go towards twelve ship all 
the robber , in full we will take ! " At that time Shipman heeded omens to the island and see how those twelve ship all 
the robber ran past .

Shipman waited and how much ought sailed on . Nor less, neither much time had passed , the ship landed to town Khvalynsk 
, and at the local king for several years before the palace windows and shout crows fly with voronihoyu and Voronenko , 
neither day nor night do not give anyone ugomonu2 . Whatever you do, do not be any tricks from their windows otzhit3 ; 
NOT take even a fraction ! And it was ordered by the king arrived at the marina and all the Carrefour such mention: if 
anyone can otzhit from the palace windows voronihoyu raven , that the king would give a reward of their kingdoms and 
smaller princess to wife , and who will take up this case, and the case did not, that will cut off the head . Much has 
been Okhotnikovo intermarry with the king , but all their heads under the ax laid
I learned about it Bob , began to ask in the mariners ' let go to Corolla - ward off voronihoyu raven . " No matter how 
much he tried to persuade Shipman , could not restrain . " Well, go - he says - if anything evil to happen - over 
penalties " Bob came to the palace , the king said , and ordered to open that same window , near which Crow lethals . 
Listen to bird calls and says the king , "Your Majesty, do you see that fly here are three: the raven , his wife and 
their son voroniha crow , raven with voronihoyu argue who owns son - his father or mother , and asked to judge them . 
Your Majesty ! Tell me, who owns a son? "King says," Father. " Only the king has spoken this word with crows flew 
Voronenko right and voroniha - left.

After the king took the boy to himself, and he lived with him in high favor and honor ; grew up and became a beautiful 
young man , married the princess and took assigned kingdoms . Occurred to him somehow to travel around to different 
places on foreign lands , people see and be seen , met and went on pilgrimages. In one town , he stopped to spend the 
night , spent the night , got up in the morning and tells him to feed him water to wash . The owner brought him water 
and towel hostess filed ; porazgovorilsya prince with them and learned that they were father and his mother , wept with 
joy and fell at their feet parent , and after I took them with him to the city Khvalynsk and they became all together 
live happily ever after until well .
