Here , znash , was a matter, tell your health. Here , not in anger your mercy , to speech to say how we tepericha with you , raskalyakalis amongst themselves two of our brothers peasants , the impoverished - prebedneyuschie . One - on living somehow , all batters crook much was znash on deceptions and privornut it was the case, and the other from , listen, was the truth, if only works century living. That's the case , then they began to argue . One - on says: live better falsehood , and the other of said falsehood century can not live , no matter how better to live there , but true. Here they argue , arguing, nobody znash not argue .

So they went , my brother , on the road. Went on the road and decided to ask up to three times , who gets to meet them and that it will tell . Here they they walked and walked , my brother , and saw - manor peasant plowing . Here , znash and approached him . Come and say, "God help you on the familiar . Allow you our discussion of how best to live in this world - a truth or falsehood ? "-" No , listen, brothers! True age can not live , live freer falsehood . That's our job : besperech1 , listen, gentlemen, we take away the days work for him once , because the bondage prikineshsya like that popritchilos - illness , znash , found , but this time between himself somewhere in lesishko Congress on drovitsy not in the afternoon, at night , if there is a ban . " - " Well , listen, my truth ," - says krivodushny - of - fact truthful .

Here again went on the road - that tells them another . They walked and walked and type : rides in a carriage with a pair kibitka merchant . Here they came to him . Came up and asked: "Stop a minute, listen, for an hour , not in anger your mercy , which we ask you. Decide Listen, our discussion of how best to live in the world - true Ali falsehood ? "-" No , listen, guys! Truth hard to live better falsehood . Deceive us , and we listen, we deceive . " - " Well , listen, my truth ," - says again krivodushny - of - fact truthful .

Here they go again on the road - that says a third. They walked and walked , and see here : pop goes forward. So they came up to him . Approached , znash , to him and asked: "Stop a minute, dad , on chasochek , decide you our argument : how best to live in the world - true Ali falsehood ? " - " Here's what to ask found . BANNER thing that falsehood . What nonche true? For the truth , listen, you will please to Siberia , say - chicaner . That's the life for example , said to tell you not to lie : in the parish , then I have to raze a tenth of a spirit -that is , as the banner thing, we all write . But we and povolgotnee ; Institute okay times and prayer liturgy instead . " - " Well , listen, - says krivodushny - from something truthful - that all say

153

falsehood to live better . " - "No , listen ! We must live as God's , as God commands . What will be, will be, and falsehood , listen, do not want to live , "- says a truthful - krivodushnomu from somewhere.

That went along the road again . They walked and walked , - from all - krivodushny all prilazhivatsya fails everywhere it is fed , and the rolls he has a true - from where voditsy izopet where some work , feed him for it , and the one znash , krivodushny from all - laughs over it. That's just true - slice loaf of asked krivodushnogo have something , "Give , listen, I slice the loaf " - " And what's it give me ? " - Says krivodushny . "If he likes it - hell, I have ," - says a truthful - on . "Give me your eye poke " - " Well, pitch dark ," - he said to him . That's the case , then krivodushny - on , and put something truthful eyes. Gouged out and gave him a little bread. One listen, lost his temper and took a piece of the loaf , ate , and went back on the road .

They walked and walked - again, in true - to - krivodushnogo then begged loaf slice. Here , znash , he again became a different mocked . "Give me , listen, I'm the other eye poke , well, then I will give a piece ." - "Oh , brother, I think I 'll be blind " - from true - pressed him . "No , listen, but you're truthful , and I live falsehood " - krivodushny - by told him . What to do? Well, to be relevant and . " On , pitch dark and the other , if you are not afraid of sin " - true - to krivodushnomu says something. Here , my brother , and he put out the other - from the eyes . Gouged out and gave him a little bread. Gave a loaf and left him , listen, on the road , "Behold, I 'll drive you ? " Well what blind ate znash , slice loaf and went slowly groping with a stick.

Shel- was somehow lost , and , listen, the road and do not know where will it go. So he began to ask God , "Lord ! Do not leave me , a sinner of your servant ! " Prayed , listen, pray , that he heard a voice , someone said to him :" You go right. As you go right, you come to the forest , you come to the forest - get you groping path. Find , listen, path , come you along the path . Go down the path , you come to gremyachiy2 key. As you will come to Gremyachiy key , wash it out with water, and that water ispey moisten her eyes . How to moisten the eyes , you listen, prozreesh ! How prozreesh . you just try to up the key and you will see a large oak tree . See oak , come to him and climbed into it. How zalezesh him , wait for the night. Wait, let me tell you the night , hear what they say under this oak unclean spirits . They listen, here are drawn to Stomping Ground . "

That he somehow dobrel to forests . Dobrel to forest - polazil climb on it, somehow fell on the footpath. Went along the path , reached Gremyachiy key . Eliminated key znash and washed with water. Washed with water, and drank primochil eyes . Primochil eyes and suddenly saw the light of day again - sight. Here's how sight - and went , listen, up the volume key. Shel- walked through it here and sees a large oak tree . Beneath it all trampled . Here he got to the oak . Climbed up and waited for the night.

154

Here , listen, started under the oak that sletatsya demons on all sides . Flew , flew , that's started to tell where someone was . Here's a demon and said: " I ​​listen, was in such a princess. Now, ten years her torment . Anything me kicked out of her , I will not be able to expel and drive out , listen, whoever here at such and such a rich merchant would get the image of Our Lady of Smolensk , he had the gate is embedded in Kyoto . "

That morning , znash as all the demons fled , true - tears with oak . Tears with oak and went to look for that merchant. Looked and looked , somehow found it. Found and asks to work for him. "At least a year , listen, I shall work , I do not need anything , just give me the image of the Mother of God from the gate ." Merchant znash agreed , took him to his employees . Here he worked at it that neither is urine all year round. After a year , he asks one znash , image. That merchant hear: " Well , brother, I'm satisfied with your work , I only wish the image, better take the money ." - "No , listen, do not need money , and give it to me by agreement ." - "No , listen, I will not give way . Worked for a year , well, so be it, then give it to you . " That's the case , then , znash , truthful , from peasant worked for another year. Neither day nor night did not know all the work, so , listen, was studious .

That worked for a year , again , znash , begged the Mother of God with the image of the target. Merchant , listen, sorry again and let him go on and give - way . "No , listen, I'm better penalty reward , and if you want , then run for a year , well, so I will give you an image ." That's the way to be relevant and , again began to work a year . Worked even louder that znash , all marvel at what was a hard worker ! That worked for a third year. And worked again znash asks image. That merchant, doing nothing, took the image from the door and gave him . " Here, take it and go with the image of God." - Watered and fed him money , listen, awarded a fraction .

That's the case , then , znash , he took the image of Our Lady of Smolensk . Took it and hung it on yourself. Hung over and went , listen, to the king to treat the princess , which demon - torturer from sitting. Shel- walked and came to the king. Came to the king and said: "I am your princess de cure , listen, I can." That's the case , then let him in the royal mansion . Admitted and showed him the princess grieved . Showed the princess , so he asked znash water . Served water , so he crossed himself. Crossed and three prostrations put - znash prayed to God . Pray , listen, god , that's off his image of the Virgin . Removed it and with prayer three times into the water lowered . Lowered , znash , and put it on the princess . Put on the princess and told her toyu water wash. That's the case , then, as she , mother, put on the image itself and znash , washed with water toyu suddenly of her illness - from , something the enemy: the evil spirit , the club flew out. Flew out, and she , listen, become healthy still .

That's the case , then God knows all delighted. Excited and did not know what to award this peasant. And the earth , listen, give , and promised fiefdom , and put a big salary . "No , listen, do not need anything ! " That 's the princess said to the king : "I 'm going to marry him ." - "Well ," - said the king - of .

155

That's the case , then , listen, and got married . Got married , and became our little man walking in the royal shalt live in the royal mansion , drink , and have everything all at the same time with them. Lived - lived and prinatorel3 them . Here's how it prinatorel to him and says, " Let me go home , I , listen, there is a mother , a poor old woman ." - "Well, - princess znash , his wife said . - We'll go together . "

So they went together, together with the princess . Horses something , clothes , stroller , harness - all royal . Drove, drove and drove up they are , listen to his homeland. Drove up to the home , that comes out to meet them one krivodushny that znash , arguing something with him that it is better to live falsehood than truth. Go, listen, meet behold true - from the king's son , and said : "Hello , brother ," - calls it , listen, by name! Moreover , znash in curiosity , in the carriage of such noble gentleman knows, and did not recognize him . "Remember , you're arguing with me that it is better to live falsehood than truth , and put out my eyes ? That I am the most ! "

Here , znash he timid and did not know what to do. " No, do not worry, I'm with you , listen, and not angry, and I wish you luck this w . Here you go and in such a forest - znash , teaches him how his god taught . - In the forest you will see the path. Come along the path , you will come to Gremyachiy key . Get drunk , listen, from the key water and wash. How umoeshsya , I suppose you're up on the key. There you will see a large oak tree , climbed on to it and after spending all night on it. Under it , listen, Stomping Ground unclean spirits , and you listen and hear their happiness . "

Here , znash , krivodushny - on at his word , as in Scripture, did it all . Forest and found that path. Went down the path and come , listen to Gremyachiy key . Drunk znash and washed . Washed, and went up to him. Went up and saw a large oak tree , under it all trampled . Here he climbed this oak . Climbed the oak znash and waited overnight. Waited for the night and hears from all sides flocked to Stomping Ground unclean spirits . Here's how flocked - and heard him in spirit on the oak . Heard , znash , in spirit and tore it into small pieces.

So so , listen, this thing and get it over that true - to become the king's son, and then tore krivodushnogo - devils .
