Sometimes up alive - once upon a time an old man to the old woman , they had three sons : the first - Yegorushka aerial 
, second - Misha toed third - Iwashko Zapechnik . That's heads to their father and mother to marry ; son sent large 
bride look , and he went to go - a lot of time , where neither look at the girls , and can not afford to clean up the 
bride , it's not glyanutsya1 . Then he met on the road three-headed snake and scared of snakes and tells him : "Where , 
my good man , he went ? " Yegorushka says: " Went to woo , but I can not priiskat bride ." The serpent says, " Come with me, I'll tell you, if you can put the bride ? "

That's going to go , came to a large stone. Serpent says: " Lapel stone ; there that wish is what you get ." Lapel 
Yegorushka tried , but could not do anything . The serpent said to him, " Duck told you no



Bride " And Yegorushka returned home and told his father and mother about everything. Father and mother again thought - 
thought how to live to be sent middle son , Misha clubfoot . With that the same thing happened . Here the old man and 
the old woman thought - thought , and not know what to do : if you send Ivashka Zapechnogo , to do nothing!

A Iwashko Zapechny was himself requested to see a snake , and the father and mother would not let him at first , but 
after allowed. And Iwashko also went to go and met three-headed snake . Asked the serpent : "Where went , my good man ? 
" He said, " Brothers wanted to get married , but could not get the bride , and now I turn fell ." - " Perhaps I'll show 
, if you can get the bride? "

That went snakes Iwashko , reached the same stone and snakes ordered stone lapel with the place. Iwashko it enough , and 
the stone is gone - from the place fell off , there was a hole in the ground, and near it approved belts . Here snakes 
and says: " Iwashko sit on belts , I 'll go down you , and you go there and you get to the three kingdoms, and in every 
realm to see Devi ."

Iwashko down and went ; going to go , and he came to the copper kingdoms came here and saw the girl , beautiful of 
itself. Maid says, " Welcome, Guest unprecedented ! Come and sit down, place where prosto2 see , to say, where you go 
and where? "-" Oh, girl red ! - Said Iwashko . - No fed and not Napoi to lead the table to ask . " That girl has 
collected on the table all meals and drinks; Iwashko drank and ate and began to tell that I was going to look for de 
bride : "If your mercy is - ask to marry me ." - "No , my good man , - said the girl , - you , Go ahead, you come to the kingdom of silver : there is even more beautiful girl I " - and gave him a silver ring .

That's a fine young girl thanked for bread in salt, farewell and departed, going to go , and he came to the silver 
kingdoms came here and saw beautiful girl sits first . He prayed to God and brow beat "Wow , fair maiden ! " She replied
: "Welcome, fellow passerby ! Sit -to-tail , Whose to otkul and what deeds came here ? "-" Oh , lovely girl ! - Said 
Iwashko . - No Napoi and not fed to the table keep asking . " Here gathered the girl table brought all meals and drinks 
, then Iwashko drank , ate, how much he wanted, and began to tell me that he went in search of a bride , and asked her 
to marry you. She told him : " step forward, there is still the golden kingdom , and that kingdom has me even more 
beautiful girl " - and gave him a gold ring .

Iwashko bye and went forward, going to go , and he came to the golden kingdom , went and saw all the beautiful damsel . 
There he prayed to God , and as follows , greeted the girls . Maid began asking him where he was going and where ? "Ah, 
fair maiden ! - He said . - No Napoi and not fed to the table keep asking . " Here she laid the table all meals and 
drinks, which can not demand better .


Iwashko Zapechnik treated myself all well and began to talk : " I'm coming , seeking a bride , if you wish to marry me , then come with me ." Maid agreed and gave him a golden ball, and they went together.
Going to go , and came to the silver kingdom - then took the girl with him , went to go again , and came to the kingdom 
of copper - and then took the girls , and they all went to the hole , from which it is necessary to get out , and then 
hang belts and senior brethren are already in the hole, want to climb to the same search Ivashka .


Here Iwashko planted on the belts of copper kingdom girls and shook his belt , the brothers dragged and dragged the girl
and lowered the straps again . Iwashko planted maid of silver kingdom, and that dragged and dropped the straps again , 
then he put the golden girls of the kingdom, and that dragged and dropped belts . Then he sat down Iwashko brothers 
dragged and dragged , dragged , but when they saw it - Iwashko , thought: " Perhaps , get him out , he did not duck got 
any girls " - and cut the straps ; Iwashko fell down . Here , there is nothing, he wept , wept and went forward, going 
to go , he saw an old man sitting on the air - with a quarter of itself , and his beard with his elbow - and told him 
everything , like what happened to him . The old man taught him to go further : " Will you get to the hut , and the hut 
is a long man from corner to corner , and you ask him how to go to Russia ."

Here Iwashko went to was , and he came to the hut , went in there and said, " Strong Idol ! Do not destroy me : tell me 
how to get to Russia ? "-" Yuck! - Blurted Idol . - Russian kosku3 nobody called , she came . Well, did you go over 
thirty lakes there stands on chicken leg hut , hut and Baba Yaga lives , it has an eagle - bird, and you will make it . 
" That was a good fellow to go , and he came to the hut , went into the hut , Baba Yaga shouted : " Fu Fu Fu ! Russian 
comma, why come here? " Then Iwashko said," But , Grandma, I came on strong order Idol ask you Mighty Eagle Bird that 
she pulled me to Russia . " - "Go thou , - said Baba Yaga - in kindergarten ; stands guard at the door , and you take 
his keys and go for seven doors , as you will unlock the last door - then vstrepenetsya eagle wings, and if you did not 
get scared then sit on it and Fly , only take with beef, and when it will look , you give him a piece of meat.

Iwashko did everything according to the commandment Yaga - grandmother , took the eagle and flew , flew , flew , the 
eagle looked - Iwashko gave him a piece of meat , flew , flew , and often gave the eagle meat, so all fed , and still 
could not fly close. The eagle looked around, but no meat Comments behold eagle snatched from withers Ivashka piece of 
meat eaten and pulled it into the same hole to Russia. When Iwashko came with an eagle , eagle vyharknul piece of meat 
and told him to apply to the withers . Iwashko attached and withers overgrown . Iwashko came home, took the brothers 
from the golden girls of the kingdom , and they lived to be , and now live . I was there , drinking beer , beer and then by MLD Teklay , but in the mouth is not horrible .






footnotes

Footnote on page 180

1 That is not love .

Footnote on page 187

2 Empty , empty.

Footnote on page 188

3 Bone , bone.
