In a certain kingdom , in a country , there lived a king and his queen , they had no children, and lived together up to 
ten years , so that the king sent by all the kings , all the cities , all the nations - to cherneti1 : who could treat , 
that the queen was pregnant ? Gathered princes and boyars , merchants and rich peasants , and the king fed them to the 
full , watered all drunk and began to inquire . Nobody knows , does not know no one can tell from what used queen could 
bear fruit , only took a peasant's son . King takes and gives him a handful of ducats full term and appoints three days.

Well, a peasant's son took to take and what to say - and that he never dreamed , he went out of town and thought hard. 
Old woman comes to meet him , "Tell me , son of a peasant , what are you thinking about? " He meets her : " Shut up, old 
hrychovka not annoy me ! " Here she ran forward and said: " Tell me thought his strong , man I am old know everything . 
" He thought, " What am I her election ? Maybe that knows . - Here , Grandma, I took the king to say , from what would

217

Queen fetus suffered , yes I do not know . " - " That's it! And I know , go and tell the king and to contact three seine 
silk , which the sea near the window - it has zlatokrylaya pike against the palace zavsegda walks . When catches her 
king yes manufacture , and the queen to eat, and then bear offspring . "

Peasant's son , he went himself to catch the sea ; threw three seine silk - pike jumped and broke all three seine . On 
another occasion threw - the identity broke . Peasant's son took off his belt and neck silk handkerchief , tied these 
seine threw the third time - and caught pike zlatokryluyu ; was overjoyed , took and carried her to the king. The king 
ordered that pike wash , clean , roast and serve the queen. Cook pike yes cleaned washed, dishwater poured out of the 
window : come cow opoloschiny2 drank . As soon pike fry cook , the maid ran - Chernavka , put it in a dish, the Queen 
suffered , yes dear tore wing and tried . All three suffered in one day, one hour : cow - girl Chernavka and queen .

Soon easier said than done . After a few times comes with barnyard cowgirl , King reports that the cow gave birth to a 
man. King very surprised , he did not have time to take these speeches as running to tell him that the girl - Chernavka 
birth to a boy just like cow son, and after that come to report that the queen gave birth to a son just like a cow - 
voice into the voice and the hair in the hair. Wonderful took after the boys ! Who are growing for years, and they are 
growing by the hour , who a year - they are such an hour , who in three years - they are three hours. They began to age 
, hearing a mighty force , heroic , come to the father - king and beg in the city to walk, see and be seen. He allowed 
them , punished walk quietly and peaceably , and gave the money as much as could take .

Send good fellows : one called Prince Ivan , the other son of Ivan Devkin third Storm -hero Ivan cow son , but walked - 
walked, did not buy anything . Here Ivan Tsarevich caught sight glass beads and brothers said : " Come on, boys, buy on 
the ball but let us throw up , who will throw up , that we will be a senior ." Brothers agreed ; thrown foals - who 
throw forward? Came Ivan Tsarevich . He threw high, and son Ivan Devkin even higher , and Storm -hero son cow so threw 
that disappeared from sight , and says, " Well, now I'm over you head ! " Ivan Tsarevich angry: " How true! Cow's son , 
and wants to be a senior ! " That's what Storm -hero he replied:" It is evident , as God wants you to listen to me . "

They went by the way , come to the Black Sea , the sea reptile clucks . Prince Ivan says: " Come on, lads, who her kill 
the bastard , one of us will be great ! " Brothers agreed. Storm -hero says, " rebuked you, Ivan Tsarevich ! Uymesh - 
will be upon us senior . " He started screaming , unimat bastard Forest angry. Then he began unimat Ivan Devkin son - 
also did nothing. A Storm -hero cried

218

yes his cane into the water dropped - the bastard is gone ! And again said: " I'm over you head ! " Ivan Tsarevich angry
: " Do not want to be younger brothers " - " Well, stay by themselves " - said Storm -hero and returned to their 
homeland , while those two brothers went - aimlessly.

King learned that the Storm -hero one came , and ordered to put it into a fortress , do not let him drink or eat for 
three days. Hercules pounded his fist into the stone wall and shouted heroic voice: " Single Report to his king , and my 
father name , what about me that he does not feed ? Me your walls - no walls, and grills - not grating want - all 
smashed his fist ! " Immediately report to all this the king , and the king himself comes to him and says," What are you 
, Storm -hero , boasts ? "-" My dear Named ! What about what you do not feed me , for three days of starvation morish ? 
I do not know of any wrongdoing . " - " And what you do with my sons and my brothers ? " Storm -hero cow son told him 
how , and that was : "Brothers are alive and well , nothing unharmed , and went - aimlessly ." King asked: " Why did you 
not go with them ? " - " Because Prince Ivan wants to be a senior , and in foals gets me ." - "Well, well ! I will send 
them to turn back . " Storm -hero says : "No , I okromya not overtake them , and they went to such places - snake in the 
region, where travel from the Black Sea snake three six-, nine-and twelve- ." King began to ask him ; Storm -hero cow 
son going in the way of Dorozhen'ka took mace combat and magic sword and went .

Soon easier said than done ; go - go and the brothers caught near the Black Sea in Kalinove bridge , at that bridge 
pillar stands on a column written that go here three snake . "Hello , boys ," They were glad, and he answered: "Hello, 
Storm -hero , our elder brother " - " What is evident , not eat you - on a column written? " Looked around - near the 
bridge hut on chicken legs on Petukhova head to rehouse the forest , and to them backwards . Storm -hero and shouted: 
"Hut , hut ! Ustoysya yes can lie back to the forest , and to us before . " Hut capsized ; climbed into it, and there is 
a table set on the table a whole lot - and the food and drink different , and in the corner stands a plank bed , lying 
on her downy feather . Storm -hero says: "Behold, my friends, if I did not , you would be nothing like that ."

Sat down, had lunch , then went to rest. Rising, Storm -hero predicts : " Well , boys, tonight will leave six-headed 
serpent , let's throw foals who watch ? Thrown - Ivan got Devkina son ; Storm -hero and he says: " Behold , pop up out 
of the sea and the pitcher will stand before thee to dance , you do not look at him and spit on him take , and shatter 
." Devkin son was come , and fell asleep. A Storm -hero , knowing that his brothers - people insecure , he went , 
walking on the bridge yes cane tapping . Suddenly jumped in front of him a jug and dancing ; Storm -hero - spit spit at 
him and broke into small pieces . Here duck quacked coast rattled , Shake sea , sea vskolyhalos - climbs miracle Suzanna ,

219

Mosalsk lip : six-headed serpent ; whistle whistle - barked valiant , heroic POKRIK " Sivka - burka , broadcasting 
kaurka ! Be in front of me , like a leaf before the grass . "

Horse runs , only the earth trembles beneath his feet on hay haystack iskopyt flies out of his ears and nostrils smoke 
coming . Wonder Suzanna sat on it and rode the viburnum Axle; horse stumbles underneath . "What are you , a crow meat, 
stumble : Ali hear another foe ? " Responsible good horse , "There we foe - Storm -hero son of a cow ." - " You're lying
, crow meat! His bones here crow in a bubble not to wear out , not only to himself be "-" Oh , Suzanna miracle ! - Said 
Storm -hero cow son - not my raven bones wear out myself here pogulivayut . " The serpent asked him: " Why did you come 
? Woo my sisters Ali daughters ? "-" No, brother, to arrive in the field - not considered relatives , let's fight . "

Storm -hero broke , swung a club fighting - he blew three heads , at other times the other demolished . Took the body 
and the cut in the sea threw their heads under the bridge hid viburnum , and tied his horse to the feet Devkina son 
magic sword put in his head , he went into the hut and went to bed as if nothing had been . Ivan Devkin son woke up , I 
saw a horse and was very happy , sat on it , went to the cabin and shouted: " That's Storm -hero told me not to look at 
the jug , and I looked , and so the Lord gave me a horse ! " He replied : "You given , and we still promised ! "

On another night Prince Ivan battered guard ; Storm -hero and he said the same about the jug . Prince began to drop in 
the bridge , cane tapping - popped jug and began to dance in front of him , he was staring at him and fell into a deep 
sleep. A Storm -hero , not relying on his brother , he went ; walked about on the bridge , cane taps - jug jumped and 
danced . Storm -hero - spit spit at him and smashed . Suddenly duck quacked coast rattled , Shake sea , sea vskolyhalos 
- climbs miracle Yuda , Mosalsk lip ; whistle whistle - barked valiant , heroic POKRIK " Sivka - burka , broadcasting 
kaurka ! Be in front of me , like a leaf before the grass . "

Horse runs , only the earth trembles , ears and nostrils of a pillar of smoke coming down from his mouth flames of fire 
bursting ; stood before him in his tracks . Sat on it a miracle Suzanna The nine snakes , rode viburnum Axle; enters the 
bridge , underneath the horse stumbles. Beats him wonder Yuda the steep hips , "What crow meat, stumble - hear another 
Ali foe ? " - " There we foe - Storm -hero son of a cow ." - " You're lying ! His bones crow in a bubble not to wear out 
, not only to himself be "-" Oh, you wonder Yuda , Mosalsk lip ! - Storm -hero said , - I myself am here another year to 
roam . " - " Well, Storm -hero , my sisters Ali daughters Woo ? " - " In the gather - not considered relatives , let's 
fight ! "


Storm -hero broke , battle swung a club - three heads , as bumps , demolished ; swung in the other - three head blew , 
and the third

220

and others cut down . Took the body , so cut into the Black Sea threw their heads under the bridge viburnum hid the 
horse tied to the feet of Ivan Tsarevich and the magic sword put in his head , he went into the hut and went to bed as 
if nothing had been . Morning Prince Ivan awoke, saw the horse still better than the first , happy , rides and shouts, " 
Hey, Storm -hero , you did not tell me to look at the jug , and gave me a god horse better than the first ." He answers 
: " God gave you , and I only promised ! "

Suitable third night sbiraetsya Storm -hero on guard ; put on the table and a candle , stuck a knife into the wall , 
hung a towel at him , gave the brothers a deck of cards and says, " Play guys cards, so I do not forget , as would be 
the candle burn out and with this dish towels will arrive blood , then quickly run to the bridge, to me help " . Storm 
-hero walked about on the bridge , cane taps - jug jumped and danced , and he spat at him , spit and broke into small 
pieces . Suddenly duck quacked coast rattled , Shake sea , sea vskolyhalos - climbs miracle Yuda , Mosalsk lip : twelve- 
snakes ; whistle whistle - barked valiant , heroic POKRIK " Sivka - burka , broadcasting kaurka ! Be in front of me , 
like a leaf before the grass . "

Horse runs , only the earth trembles , ears and nostrils of a pillar of smoke coming down from his mouth flames of fire 
bursting , he ran and stood before him in his tracks . Wonder Suzanna sat on it and rode ; enters the bridge , the horse 
stumbles underneath . "What are you , a crow meat, stumble ? Sensed or foe ? "-" There we foe - Storm -hero son of a cow 
. " - " Shut up, his bones here crow in a bubble not to wear out " - " You're lying , miracle - Yuda , Mosalsk lip ! I 
myself am here for the third year pogulivayut . " - " Well, Storm -hero , on my sisters Ali daughters want to marry ? " 
- " In the gather - not considered relatives , let's fight ." - " Oh, you killed my two brothers , and I think so win! " 
- " There Is God willing ! Just listen , miracle - Yuda , Mosalsk lip , you're with a horse, and I walk ; persuasion 
best: lying not to beat . "

Storm -hero broke , swung a club fighting - and immediately demolished three heads , was sold to another - it knocked 
snakes . Hero shouts, " Stop, Suzanna miracle ! Agreement was, lying not to beat . " Wonder Suzanna gave him cope ; he 
stood - and immediately flew three heads like bumps . Then they began to beat a few hours romping , both of forces had 
escaped ; snake still have three heads were gone, the hero at Mace snapped. Storm -hero son cow shot with his left foot 
boots , threw into the hut - half of it blew away , and his brothers are asleep, they do not hear ; shot with his right 
foot boots , threw - a log cabin rumblings and brothers all do not wake up . Storm -hero took a piece of mace , let the 
stables , where two stallions standing and Vylomov of stable door ; stallions ran to the bridge and kicked out of the 
saddle snake . Here the hero delighted ran up to him and cut off his head the other three ; snake trunk cut into the 
Black Sea yes tossed and head tucked under the bridge viburnum . After took three stallions brought to the stables , and 
he hid under the viburnum bridge , on the bridge , and the blood is not podter .

Brothers woke up in the morning , look - all crumbled hut , a plate full of blood , went into the stable - there are 
three stallion wonder what happened to the older brother ? Searched for him for three days - not found , and said among 
themselves : "Obviously , they killed each other , and their bodies were gone , go home now ! " Just horses saddled , 
was ready to go, Storm -hero woke up and out from under the bridge "What are you, my friends, leaving his fellow ? I 
redeemed you from death , and you were all asleep and help me not to come . " Then they fell to her knees , " Blame , 
Storm -hero , our big brother " - " God will forgive you ! " He whispered over Hut : "As was previously , and now Be! " 
Hut was still - and with meals and drinks . " That , my friends , have lunch , and then without me , tea, frozen , and 
then we'll go ."

Lunch and went on a journey into the track ; slid two miles , says Storm -hero son cow : " Brothers! I forgot in the hut 
pletochkoy ; ride small step until I flew over her . " He came to the hut , got off his horse , and hurled it at the 
protected meadows , "Go , good horse until you ask ." He turned himself flies, flew into the hut and sat on the stove.



A little later there came the Baba Yaga and sat in the front corner , comes to her young daughter , "Oh , mother, your 
son , and my husband ruined Storm -hero son Ivan cow . Yes I OTSM him this mockery : Looking ahead and I will let him a 
hot day , and she made ​​green meadow , in which a green meadow oborochus I well, in this well will be swim silver 
goblet , even oborochus I boarded cot. Want to take the horses to feed themselves relax and have a drink of water , then
, and burst them on a poppy seed ! " Tells her womb : " Because of their villains , and it is necessary ! "


Comes second daughter : "Oh , mother, your son , and my husband ruined Storm -hero son Ivan cow . Yes I OTSM him this 
mockery : Looking ahead , oborochus beautiful garden through the fence will hang different fruits - juicy , fragrant ! 
They want to rip that someone like ; their luck and tear on a poppy seed ! " Answered her womb :" And you're well taken 
in head . " Comes third , smaller daughter . "Oh , mother, ruined Storm -hero Ivan cow son of your son and my husband. 
Yes I OTSM him this mockery : oborochus an old house , they want obnochevat it only ascend to the hut - once and burst 
them on a poppy seed "-" Well, my daughter-in kind if you do not ruin them , then tomorrow the race itself advance 
oborochus pigs and swallow all three . "


Storm -hero sitting on the stove, listened to the speeches , flew out, struck the ground and again became stalwarts 
whistle whistle - barked valiant , heroic POKRIK " Sivka - burka , broadcasting kaurka ! Be in front of me , like a leaf 
before the grass . " Horse runs , the earth trembles . Storm -hero sat on it and rode ; imposed on a stick mochalochku 
catches up with his companions and said to them, "Behold, my friends, without any pletochki I can not live ! " - " Oh , 
brother, for by what rubbish tossed ! Would have moved to the city, would buy new . "

Here they go steppes , valleys, such a hot day , that there is no patience , thirst tormented ! That green meadow, 
meadow grass ants on the grass bed plank . "Brother Storm -hero , let's feed the horses on this grass and rest themselve
s on the plank bed , a well here and there - a little water cold drink some ." Storm -hero says to his brothers : " The 
Well worth in the steppes and Vistas , none of the water it takes, do not drink ." Jumped off his horse kind, the well 
began to whip and cut - but blood splatters and suddenly became foggy day , the heat subsided , and do not want to drink 
. "You see , my friends, what kind of water persevering, like blood ." They went further.

Long or short it - go past a lovely garden. Says Ivan Tsarevich elder brother , "Let us rip on the bullseye ." - " Ah , 
my friends, the garden stands in the steppes , in Vistas , maybe something vintage apples and rotten ; if you eat - even 
illness attack . So I 'll go and see in advance ! " He went down into the garden and began to whip and cut down all the 
trees severed one of them. The brothers were angry at him , that their language does not.

They drive by - way, pristigaet their dark night , approaching the one hut. "Brother Storm -hero , you see , the rain 
comes , let obnochuem hizhinke in this ." - " Ah , my friends, better Raskin tents and in the open field obnochuem than 
in this hut , hut this is old, let us go up to her - she will crush us , so I 'll go see yes ." He went down into the 
cabin and began to cut it - only blood pryschet ! " See for yourself what this hut - quite rotten ! Let's go , it's 
better to come. " Brothers grumbling to himself , and gave no sign that they are angry . Go further and suddenly the 
road diverges into two. Storm -hero says, " Brothers, let us go on the left path." They say : "Go where you want, and 
we're not going anywhere ." And they went right, and Storm -hero left.

Storm - coming athlete Ivan cow son to a village in the village twelve blacksmiths work . Here he shouted , whistled 
whistle valiant , heroic POKRIK " Blacksmiths , farriers ! Go and everything here . " Blacksmiths heard all twelve ran 
to him : "What do you want? " - " Surrounds forge iron plate ." They forge spirit obtyanuli . " Hammer , blacksmiths, 
twelve rods of iron tongs yes glows red hot ! Pig running to you and say, blacksmiths, farriers , feed me guilty , do 
not give me your fault, I have all the forge and swallow ! And you say, ah , mother pig , take away this fool , he had 
tired of us, just stick your tongue in the forge , so we have it on the language you put him . "

Only managed Storm -hero to give them orders , suddenly appeared to him a pig and a tremendous shouting : " Blacksmiths 
, farriers ! Give me someone to blame . " Blacksmiths all at once replied: "Mother pig, you take away the fool , he has 
long bothered us , just stick your tongue in the forge , we want you on his tongue and put him ." Pig was simple , slow
-witted , stuck her tongue out at the whole fathoms ; Storm -hero grabbed her tongue and hot pincers blacksmiths cried : 
" Take the iron bars , and ride it this well ! " Until then bashed her , until the ribs were bare . " Well , - said 
Storm -hero - Single grab hold of her : I give her popotchuyu ! "
He grabbed an iron rod as it hit - so all the edges in half.

Begged him a pig , " Storm -hero , let my darling to repentance ." Storm -hero says : "Why swallowed my brothers ? " - " 
I will give your brothers now ." He grabbed her by the ears , pig spat - and jumped two brothers and with the horses. 
Storm -hero then lifted her and swung around the damp earth pig aredom3 crumbled . Storm -hero says to his brothers : " 
You see, fools , where were you? " They fell on their knees , " Blame , Storm -hero cow son " - " Well, now let's go in 
the path of Dorozhen'ka ; no interference we will not " .

They drive up to one kingdom - to an Indian king, and pitched his tent protected meadows . King awoke in the morning , 
looked through a telescope and saw the tent and calls to his first minister , " Come , brother , take with horse stables 
, go to the reserved meadows and find out what was on the ignorant came without my permission pitched tents and lights 
spread out in my protected meadows ? "

Minister came and asked: " What kind of people , whether kings princes , kings or prince , or silnomoguchie heroes ? " 
Responsible Storm -hero cow son : "We silnomoguchie heroes , came to woo the royal daughter , reported to his king , 
that gave his daughter to prince Ivan in the marriage : and if he does not give his daughter - banished to the army . " 
King asks her daughter , if she goes for Prince Ivan ? "No, sir, I go for it , I will not send troops ." Now pipe blew 
in cymbals sounded , accumulated army and went into protected meadows ; many troops fell that Prince Ivan and Ivan 
Devkin son scared .

While Storm -hero son cow pustovarku cooked for breakfast and stopped ladle this mush ; came as waved povareshkoyu4 - so 
half the troops and put ; returned prevented gruel came waved yes - and the other half put in place , only one left 
curve yes another blind . " Report to - he says - the king gave to his daughter Maria - princess for Prince Ivan married 
, and not pay it back, so the army would be banished , and he went ." Blind curve and come to his king and said : "Your 
Majesty ! Storm -hero ordered to report to you that gave his daughter to Prince Ivan in marriage , and he himself was 
hurt was angry , all of us Povareshka interrupted . " King proceeded to his daughter : " My daughter, dear ! Go for Ivan 
Tsarevich married . " Daughter replies: " Do nothing , you will have to go for it. Command , father, send him a coach . 
"

King immediately sent the carriage , and he stands at the gate , waiting . Prince Ivan came with two brothers , the king 
received them with music , with drums beating , courteously and kindly planted in oak tables , tablecloths for Bran 
dishes for sugar for the honey drink . Here Storm -hero whispered Ivan Tsarevich , "Look, Prince Ivan , the princess 
suit
and ask you : let me go for one hour ! - And you say , Go, at least for two! " Posidevshi some time , suitable princess 
to Prince Ivan and said:" Let me , Prince Ivan , exit the chamber to another - to change . " Ivan Tsarevich let her go , 
and she came out of the rooms , and Storm -hero in her rear step is quiet .

Princess hit the porch, turnover and doves flew over the sea ; Storm -hero struck the ground , turned around and flew 
falcon behind her . The princess flew over the sea, hit the ground, a beautiful maiden turnover and says, " Grandpa , 
Grandpa , gold fellow , silver borodushka ! Single talk with you . " Grandpa leaned out hsin sea: " What do you want , 
granddaughter , want? " - " Spoken for me , Prince Ivan , I do not want to marry him go , but all our troops beaten . 
Give me , grandfather, with three hairs of your head , so I will show Prince Ivan , know de , Prince Ivan , from which 
the spine , this grass ? " Grandpa gave her three hairs , she hit the ground, turnover dove and flew home , and storm 
-hero struck the ground , he turned the same maid and said: " Grandpa, Grandpa! Go out more, talk to me - you forgot to 
say a word . " Only Grandpa stuck his head out of the water , the Storm -hero grabbed and pulled his head struck the 
ground , turned around and flew eagle palace princess soon . Causes of Ivan Tsarevich the vestibule : "In you, Ivan 
Tsarevich , this head ; princess come to you , will show three hairs , know de , Prince Ivan , from which the spine , 
this grass ? You and show her head. "

Here comes the princess , Prince Ivan shows three hairs : "Guess the prince , from which the spine , this grass ? If you 
know, or going to marry you , and do not know - do not be angry ! " And Ivan Tsarevich took fiddle head hit on the table 
:" Here's your square ! " Princess she thought to herself ," Well done! " asks : " Excuse me, Prince Ivan , to change 
into other Upper Room ." Ivan Tsarevich let her go , she went to the porch, hit the ground, and again turnover doves 
flew over the sea. Storm -hero took the prince 's head , went out into the yard , hit this head on the porch and said , 
"Where was the first , and be there ! " Head flew before the princess in place and fused with ripe body.


The princess stopped at sea, hit the ground, turnover beautiful maiden , "Grandpa , Grandpa ! Come , talk to me. " He 
gets out , "What , granddaughter , do you want? " - "Certainly not your head there was ? " - " I do not know granddaught
er ! No I was fast asleep . " - "No , Grandpa , your head was there ." - " Know how was the last time you wanted to let 
me say a word , in those days , it is clear to me and tore the head." She hit the ground, and turnover doves flew home , 
changed into a different dress , came and sat down with Ivan Tsarevich nearby. The next day they went to the altar to 
take the law , how soon from the crown came Storm -hero led Ivan Tsarevich show where he cooked bedroom , three rod 
gives him one iron and one copper , tin and the third , and said , "If you want to be alive , let me go with the 
princess in your place . "

Prince agreed. Led the young king lay in bed . While Storm -hero cow son succeeded as prince and lay down, and began to 
snore ; imposed princess foot on it , and imposed another, then vzgrebla pillow and began to choke him . Storm -hero 
jumped out from under her, took an iron rod and began to beat her , until then beat until all the pieces the rod , then 
set for copper , and that's all torn , and after he began to beat the copper tin . Pray the princess , great klyatvavami 
swear that he would not do a sort of affairs . Morning rose Storm -hero , went to Prince Ivan , "Well, brother , go and 
see how your wife I Learnt : which were cooked three rod , everything about her torn . Now live happily and love each 
other and do not forget me . "
footnotes

Footnote on page 216

Tufted 1 - common people , the mob .

Footnote on page 217

2 Slop .

Footnote on page 223

3 Aredia - the unclean spirit , the sorcerer .

4 ladle .
