In a certain kingdom , distant country , there lived a king and queen , they had a son , Prince Ivan , with old dumb . He was twelve years old , and he went again to the stables to groom his favorite . Groom was telling him this zavsegda tales, and now Prince Ivan came to hear from him fairy tales , but not heard . " Ivan Tsarevich ! - Said the groom . - Your mother will soon have a daughter , and you sister , she is a terrible witch, and eats his father and mother, and all the people adjective , so go away , ask my father that neither have the best horse - like ride , and go out of here aimlessly , if you want to get rid of trouble . " Prince Ivan ran to her father and old first spoke with him, the king so that he rejoiced that he did not and ask why he hath need of a good horse ? Immediately ordered that no horse has the best ride of his herds for the prince . Prince Ivan sat down and went aimlessly.

For a long time he was driving ; runs into two old seamstresses and asks that they took him to live. The old woman said, "We would be glad to take you, Prince Ivan , but we live a little too . Here Dolman chest needles yes

111

izoshem chest thread - once and death will come! " Prince Ivan wept and went on. Long time went on his way to Vertodubu and asks : "Take me to him ! " - " I am glad to receive you , Prince Ivan , Yes I still live a little . That's how all these oaks povydernu with roots - and once my death ! " Than ever cried the prince and went farther so on. Rides to Vertogoru ; became his request and he replied : "I am glad to take you, Prince Ivan , yes I myself live a little . See, I put mountains roll , how to handle these latest - and here is my death ! " Prince Ivan burst into bitter tears and went even further.

Long time riding ; comes finally to Solntseva sister . She took him to her , fed - poila as for his own son went. It was good to live to Prince , and all no-no , and sgrustnetsya : want to know that in the native home deetsya ? Rise , it happened , on a high mountain , look at his palace and sees that all eaten, only walls left! Sigh and cry. Times looked that way yes wept - returned and Solntseva sister asks, " Why are you , Ivan Tsarevich , nonche cry? " He says: " Wind in the eye inflated ." On another occasion the same again ; Solntseva sister went and rebuked the wind blowing. And for the third time returned Prince Ivan wept Yeah nothing to do - had to be recognized in all , and he began to ask Solntseva sister to let go of it, good fellow , home ponavedatsya . She will not let him , and he begs her , and finally persuaded the same, let him go home ponavedatsya and gave him the road brush , comb yes two youngish bullseye , whatever the old man , and eat an apple - instantly rejuvenate !

Prince Ivan came to Vertogoru just one mountain left , he took his brush and threw it in the open field : where might take - suddenly rose from the ground high - high mountains tops abut the sky , and then how they - the thousand ! Vertogor happy and fun set to work. Long or short it - Prince Ivan came to Vertodubu only three oak remains , that he took a comb and threw it in the open field : from that - all of a sudden murmur , climbed out of the land thick oak forests , tree wood thicker ! Vertodub delighted and went to Prince blagodarstvoval centenarian oaks turn out . Long or short it - Prince Ivan came to the old woman , and gave them to the bullseye , they ate , suddenly rejuvenated and gave him Hustochka how mahnesh Hustochka - will be behind the whole lake !

Prince Ivan comes home. Sister ran , met him , caress , " Sit down, - he says - brother , play the harp , and I'll go - prepare dinner ." Prince sat down and strumming the harp ; mouse crawled out of the hole and said to him with a human voice : " Save yourself, Prince , run faster! Your sister has gone to sharpen the teeth . " Prince Ivan went out of the room , mounted his horse and galloped back , and the mouse runs over the strings strum a harp , and my sister , and does not know that brother is gone. Sharpened teeth , rushed into the chamber, lo and behold - no soul, just a mouse in a hole slid . Angry witch, and grinding his teeth , and set off in pursuit.

Prince Ivan heard a noise , looked back - just about overtake sister ;

112

Hustochka waved - and became a deep lake. While witch swam lake, Ivan Tsarevich far left. She raced even faster ... That's really close! Vertodub guessing that the prince escapes from his sister , and let's pull yes oaks fell on the road , the whole mountain nakidal ! No witch aisle ! It became a way to clean , gnawed - gnawed , hardly wade , and Ivan Tsarevich far away. Rushed to catch up , drove , drove , a little more ... and you can not leave ! Vertogor saw witch grabbed the highest mountain and turned it just on the road, and that mountain staged another. While the witch climbed climbed yes , Prince Ivan went so far and found myself driving .

Witch moved through the mountains and drove his brother again ... caught sight of him, and said : " Now, do not leave me ! " That's close , that will catch up ! At the same time Prince Ivan rode to Terem Solntseva sister and shouted : "The sun , the sun ! Open to the little window . " Solntseva sister opened the window and jumped into a prince with a horse. Witch began to ask that her brother gave her head ; Solntseva her sister did not listen and did not give . Then the witch said , "Let Prince Ivan goes with me on the scale , someone who outweighs ! If I outweighed - so I 'll eat it , and if it outweighs the - let me kill you! " Come on , first got on the scales Ivan Tsarevich , and then the witch climbed : only stepped foot as Ivan Tsarevich up and thrown , but with such power, he goes straight to heaven, to Solntseva sister in towers , and the witch - serpent remained on the ground.
