Lived Kuzenka lived all alone in a dark forest ; he was thin little house , but one cockerel and five hens . By Kuzenka 
fox got into the habit to go ; time he went hunting , and only out of the house , and fox as here; ran , stabbed one 
chicken , roasted and ate a . Kuzenka returned , grabbed - no chicken ! and thinks it is true kite dragged . The next 
day went to hunt again . Comes to meet him, chanterelle and asks: "Where , Kuzenka goin ? " - " On the hunt fox " - " 
Well , good-bye ! " - And immediately ran to him into the house , stabbed chicken , roasted and ate a . Kuzenka came 
home , enough chicken - no! Palo his guess: " I do not whether the fox eats my chickens ? "


But on the third day he very firmly nailed in her cottage doors and windows , and he set out to craft. Neotkul took fox 
and asks: " Where are you going , Kuzenka ? " - " On the hunt , fox ! " Chanterelle immediately and ran toward the house 
Kuzenka and yes he turned after her . Fox ran , walked round the house , sees windows and doors boarded up very firmly , 
how to get into the house ? Went and came down the chimney. Here Kuzenka and caught fox . " Bah, - he says - that's what 
a thief to me bestow . POSTOICO Single , Sudarushka , I'm now living out of the hands will not let ! " Chanterelle 
Kuzenka begged : " Do not kill me! I'll do Skorobogataya Kozma , only for me to roast a chicken with one maslechkom 
fatter . " Kuzenka agreed and lisonka , When the wolf such a fatty meal , ran to the royal protected meadows and started 
on the protected meadows skate.

Wolf runs and says, " Oh, you damn fox ! Where so bold obtreskalas ? "-" Ah , my dear volchenek - Kinsman ! After all, I 
was the king of the feast . Did you not call Kinsman ? And there have been all sorts of different animals, martens , 
sables , multitudes ! " Wolf and asks :" Lisonka not svedesh whether to the king and me for lunch ? " And told Fox 
promised to raise Soroka gray wolves and bring with him . Wolf has driven Soroka gray wolves . Fox led them to the king 
as the lead , immediately entered the white stone chamber and the king bowed Soroka gray wolves from Kozma Skorobogataya 
. Very pleased that the king ordered all the wolves to drive into the fence and lock firmly . A fox ran to Kuzenka : ran 
, ordered roast chicken another , had lunch and set off on a hearty protected meadows and began rolling on the grass.

Runs past the bear saw lisonku and says, " Ek because you accursed hvostomelya as obtreskalas ! " She replies: "I was 
the king away , there have been all sorts of different animals, martens , sables , multitudes ! Even now, there are 
still - feasting wolves . You know , my dear Kinsman what they obedaly ! To this day all have dinner . " Bear and asks : 
" Lisonka not svedesh whether and my royal dinner? " Fox agreed and told him to gather forty forties of black bears : " 
For one, you king de worry and does not want to ." Bear gathered Soroka black bears . Fox led them to the king and bowed 
led Soroka black bears from Kozma Skorobogataya . King and glad to have ordered to drive them and lock firmly . A fox 
went to Kuzenka ; ran and ordered roast chicken with the latest cockerel . Kuzenka not regretted her fried chicken with 
the latest cockerel , fox ate a health and blank on the protected meadows and began rolling on the green grass.

Runs past with sable marten and asks: " Ek you sly fox , where so bold nakushalsya ? " - " Oh, you , sable and marten ! 
I have a very great king in high esteem. He now feast and lunch on all sorts of animals , something I poradela , quite
a lot of fat eaten , and that the animals at the dinner - it was , by the thousand ! Only you there and lacking. You
know wolves as they are envious , if not fat srodu edali about shu crack in time

the king ! And about a bear Mishka and say nothing : he eats potul that just breathing! " Sable marten and fox began to 
beg ," Kumushka boils down you have to the king we ever see. " Fox agreed and told them to drive away to his forty times 
forty sables and martens. Herded ; fox led them to the palace of the king and bowed Soroka sables and martens from Kozma 
Skorobogataya . The king can not Hanadiv wealth Skorobogataya Kozma , gladly accepted the gift and ordered to kill all 
the animals and shoot them with skins .

The next day again fox ran to the king and said , "Your Majesty ! Kozma Skarabahaty ordered you to bow low and ask 
pudovki1 ; razmerivat Serebrian need money. Its something pudovki all zaprostany2 it gold. " The king gave the fox 
without failure pudovku . She ran and told to Kuzenka measure pudovkoyu sand to lighten it from the flank ! Illuminate 
as she covered her in zautory3 certain number of petty cash and carried back to the king . Came and began to woo his 
lovely princess for Kozma Skorobogataya . The king did not refuse , tells quite Kozma and get ready to come . Kuzenka 
went to the king , and the fox ran forward and contract workers to file the bridge. Kuzenka just drove to the bridge - a 
bridge with him and collapsed into the water. Vixen began to shout : " Ahti ! Kozma Skarabahaty gone ! " King heard and 
immediately sent men to intercept Kozma . So they seized him, dressed in elegant dress and brought before the king .

He married the princess and live the king and two week . "Well, - said the king , - Come now , my dear brother-in to 
your house ." Kozma do nothing, we must meet . Harnessed horses and rode . A fox went forward. Run-run , looks shepherds 
graze their sheep , and she asks them : " The shepherds , shepherds ! Whose flock grazes ? " Shepherds answer:" Herd 
Zmiulana king . " Chanterelle beginning to teach them : "I tell everyone that this herd Skorobogataya Kozma and not 
Zmiulana - king and then go king queen Malanitsa Fire yes , if he does not tell them that this herd Kozma Skorobogataya 
- they are all of you and then with sheep - burn and slept . " Shepherds see that it neminuchee , we must obey , and 
promises every affects about Kozma Skorobogataya like a fox taught .

A fox was started up ahead ; sees - shepherds guard pigs, and asks: " Shepherds , shepherds ! Whose flock grazes ? "-" 
King Zmiulana . " - " They say that the herd is Skorobogataya Kozma , and then ride the king and queen Malanitsa fire , 
they will burn you all and slept , if become king Zmiulana remember ." Shepherds agreed. Fox ran forward again , reaches 
the cow herd Zmiulana king , then to the horse herd and tells the shepherds to speak, because these herds Skorobogataya 
Kozma , of Tsar same Zmiulane say nothing . Reaches fox and camel herds to . " Shepherds , shepherds ! Whose flock 
grazes ? "-" King Zmiulana . " Fox strictly forbade them affects about King Zmiulane and told to say that this herd

Kozma Skorobogataya , and that the king and queen Malanitsa Fire burn and slept the whole herd !

Lisonka ran forward again , resorted to the realm of the king and Zmiulana right in white stone chamber. " What do you 
say , lisonka ? " - " Well , the king Zmiulan now something should be soon - hastily hide. Fire goes menacing king , and 
the queen Malanitsa , all wiring and firing . Your cattle and herdsmen prizhgli ; sheep first , then pork , and then the 
cow and horse . I did not linger , let to tell you and not just from the smoke zadohlas ! " King Zmiulan zakruchinilsya 
- zapechalilsya " Oh, lisonka , where do I go? "-" There is in your garden old oak reserve , the median whole povygnila 
; run and buried in the hollow , as they will pass by do not . " King Zmiulan suddenly going on and what was said , 
according to the book , did as the fox taught .

A Kozma Skarabahaty rides himself so traveling with his wife and father in law . They get off to herd sheep . The young 
princess and asks, " Pastora , Shepherdess , whose flock grazes ? " - " Kozma Skorobogataya " - meet shepherds. And that 
the king glad , "Well , my dear brother-in much the same you have sheep ." They go on, run to the herd of swine . " 
Pastora , Shepherdess - asks the young princess - whose flock grazes ? " - " Kozma Skorobogataya ." - " Well , my dear 
brother-in much the same you pig ." They go on and on ; then a herd of cow, horse there , and there, and camel . Asked 
the shepherds , "Whose herd grazes ? " - They know themselves responsible one , " Kozma Skorobogataya ."

That came to the royal palace ; lisonka meets and enters them into the Chamber of white stone . King came in and 
zadivilsya : so well was cleaned ! Come feast , drink , eat and be merry ! They live day to live a week . "Well, Kuzenka 
- says lisonka - stop walking, it is necessary to correct the matter . Go with the father in a green garden , in the 
garden there is an old oak tree , and sits in the oak king Zmiulan - hid from you . Shoot the tree into small pieces ! " 
Then Kuzenka on the above, according to the book , went along with the father in a green garden, and they began to shoot 
at the oak and killed the king Zmiulana to death. Kozma Skarabahaty reigned in the state , and he began to live so 
happily TSAREVNA , and now live - chew bread . Lisonku every day they were treated hens , and until then she had 
visitors , up to where all the chickens are not ispakostila4 .






footnotes

Footnote on page 318

1 quadrangular .

2 busy , filled .

3 chime - cutting along the inner surface of the quadrangle , near the edge , which is inserted into the bottom edge .

Footnote on page 319

4 hassled ( pereela ) .
