He was himself a man gives a woman, and they had two sons and a daughter. That father sends orat1 children , they say, 
"Who will bring us dinner ?" My father said, " The girl ." A girl says, "I do not know the way ." That is to say, "How 
to go down the mountain, so there will be three ways , on the road Kotor chips will lie , you are on one and go ." 
Serpent sees the two brothers go all the way to the chip struzhut , he took the chips, gather da cast on the journey to 
which it burrows . Have they made ready for dinner and gave his daughter to bear. She went to the mountain and went on 
the journey to Kotor chips lie , came to the hole , and the dragon took her in da hole and dropped .

The brothers waited , waited and dinner da vypryahly oxen , oxen allowed pasta and dumplings go home and ask da mother , 
"Where is your mom, dinner? " My mother said, " I have long since you sent a whore ." That same evening they waited it : 
got up in the morning - it does not exist ! The brothers said : " Perhaps it took a damn snake !" They odyahlys2 da 
sisters and went to look. Go go yeah - when cheredu3 wrangler herding . They pozdorovalys , wrangler asks: " Where are 
you going? " They say, ' By the snake - odiymaty sisters "-" How do you want odnyat from snake sisters, iz'yizhte in 
myself more of an ox . " They did not want da departed. Yeah go go - when a shepherd herding sheep . They pozdorovalys 
with him . He asked them : "Where tu go ? " - " The serpent - odiymat sisters " - " If you want it odnyat then iz'yizhte 
in myself more ram ." They did not want da departed.

Go go yeah - when pig herding pigs. They pozdorovalys . He asked them : " Where are You going? " - " The serpent - 
odiymat sister ." - " If you want it odnyat then iz'yizhte in myself more boar ." They did not want da departed. Go go 
yeah - until the dragon is the circle of his house. Serpent says: "Hello ! Why are you here God brought it ? "-" To thee 
for my sister . " - " If you want to take his sister , so iz'yizhte twelve bulls , twelve rams and twelve hogs ." They 
are tiny pieces iz'yily yes and no longer wanted. He took them under rocks da sprained .

My mother was crying , that there neither sons nor daughters , took the bucket and went to da water to the well, drew 
water goes yes - when pea rolling on da road and jumped into the bucket , but it is not seen. I came home , pours water 
- when watching : pea in the bucket , and it took da iz'yila , and one of the nuts urodyvsya son. They gave him the name 
Pokotyhoroshko , it is growing by the times and in minutes. Sat down to dinner , Pokotyhoroshko asks: "Do you , Mom were 
still children? " - " I was two sons and one daughter ." - "Where are they? " - " The Serpent stole her daughter so the 
children went to look for her , yes there is neither sons nor daughters ."

He had dinner , and obuvsya odivsya . " I will go and I'm now behind them ." Requests smith " anddraw me great mace ." 
Smith izrobyv him mace ; Pokotyhoroshko

206

took a mace, and yes paid out . Goes Da goes - when herding cattle herdsman . With him pozdorovalys , wrangler it asks: 
" Where are you going? " - " I go to the snake - odiymat sister ." - " Iz'yizh in myself more of an ox so odiymesh !" He 
iz'yiv , podyakovav yeah i went. Goes Da goes - when a shepherd herding sheep . Pokotyhoroshko pozdorovalys with him , 
his shepherd asks: " Where are you going? " He says, " the serpent - odiymat sister ." - " Iz'yizh in myself more ram, 
so odiymesh !" He iz'yiv , podyakovav yes and went . Goes Da goes - when pig herding pigs. Pokotyhoroshko with him 
pozdorovalys , pig asked him : " Where are you going? " - " The serpent - odiymat sister ." - " I Iz'yizh of the larger 
boars odiymesh !" He yz'yiv , podyakovav yes and went .


Goes Da goes - standing up snake house , and my sister is the range of the well water , " Hello , Sister ! " - Says 
Pokotyhoroshko . It is to him, " You're my brother? " He said, ' I will see what I tell you brother ! " Here comes the 
serpent :" Ah, hello ! "- Says. "Hello !" The serpent asked him , "Why òû come? " - "For my sister for da brethren ." - 
" Iz'yizh twelve bulls , twelve rams and twelve hogs ." He took all ate. The serpent said, " Well done! Well, now if we 
should bytsya or reconciled ? "-" Let us bytsya ! I'm with you do not want to tolerate . " - " Dmy4 talk " - said the 
snake. " SIAs you - says Pokotyhoroshko - because you're good at your boss , not me ." From snakes as dunuv - it was the 
talk of cast iron , as well Pokotyhoroshko dunuv - it was the talk of copper . That gave the snake Pokotyhoroshko as 
mace , as the serpent became knee-deep in the ground , struck a second time - and killed the snake. Then took the snake 
hewed - cut , ashes pereviyav , brothers from the stone izvernuv , took them and gives sister went home . His father and 
mother were happy !

Snosky

Snosky k p 205

1 Pahath .

2 Odelys (eds. ).

A series of 3 - a large cattle herd , herdsman - a shepherd .

Snosky k p 206

4 Dui (eds. ).
