Ai amuse you a fairy tale ? A wonderful tale : there is in her diva wonderful , wonderful miracle , a laborer Shabarsha 
of Pluto Pluto : how much took up the plow , so necha say - all a pound ! Went on Shabarsha laborers zhit1 yes Godin 
came dashing no bread no , no vegetables were not born . Here's a thought and thinks host deep thought : how to disperse 
evil grief than to live happily ever after , where the money to take? " Oh, do not fret , the owner ! - Tells him 
Shabarsha . - Would day - bread and the money will be ! " And he went on Shabarsha mill dam . "Perhaps - think - catch 
fish ; selling - en 's money! Aha , yes , there is no rope for the bait ... Wait, now sovyu . " Begged the miller 
handful of hemp , sat on the bank and well build a hook .

Fork - lift , and jumping out of the water on the beach boy in black jacket but in a red cap . " Uncle ! You're here you 
doing ? "- He said . " But the rope twist ." - "Why? " - " Yes, I want to clean the pond so you devils out of the water 
to carry ." - " Oh, no ! Wait a little , and I 'll go and tell my grandfather . " Imp dived deep and Shabarsha started 
again for work. "Wait - I think - I 'll play with you , Cursed , piece , you bring me and of gold and silver ." And he 
began Shabarsha dig a hole dug and pointed at her with his hat cut tops. " Shabarsha and Shabarsha ! Grandpa says that 
I'm with you bargained . What would you take to get us out of the water does not carry ? "-" Yes, that this cap pour 
full of gold and silver . "

Imp dived into the water returned back , "Grandpa said that I struggled with you first ." - " Oh, where are you, suckers 
, fight with me ! Yes, you can not get along with my middle brother tatty . " - " Where's your teddy bear ? " - " And 
there , look, resting under a bush in the ravine ." - " How can I call it ? " - " Did you come so hit him poboku , so he 
himself will fall ." Imp went into the ravine , found the bear and grabbing his baton on his side. Bear in Dybok rose , 
twisted imp so that he has all the bones cracked . Hardly escaped from the bear paw , he ran to the water to the old man 
. "Well, my grandfather - he predicts in a fright , - the middle brother has Shabarshi Bear , was seized with me to 
fight - azhno bone I cracked ! Well it would be ,

269

if he somehow became Shabarsha fight "-" Hm! Go on, try to run a race with Shabarshoy ; overtake someone who ? "

And the boy in the red cap again beside Shabarshi ; grandfather gave him a speech , and he answered him : " But where do 
you run a race with me ! My little brother Zainka - and that you will leave far behind "-" Where is your brother Zainka 
? "-" Yes there - lay in the grass , relax wanted . Come closer to him so touch the ear - so he will run with you ! " 
Ran imp to Zainka , touched his ear , hare and sprinkled little devil was after him ! " Wait, wait , Zainka , let you 
catch up ... Oh, gone! " - " Well , grandfather, - said liquid, - I was rushed briskly run. Kuda ! And catch up is not 
given, but it still does not Shabarsha himself and his younger brother ran "-" Hm! - The old man muttered , frowning . - 
Go and try to Shabarshe : who is stronger whistle ? "

" Shabarsha and Shabarsha ! Grandpa told to try: who among us stronger whistle ? "-" Well, you first whistle . " Imp 
whistled so loudly that Shabarsha hardly stood on his feet , and the trees so the leaves and fell . " Good whistle - 
Shabarsha says - and it's not in my opinion ! As I whistle - you can not stand on your feet , and your ears will not 
tolerate ... Lie face down to the ground so my ears with your fingers . " Imp lay prone on the ground and covered his 
ears with your fingers ; Shabarsha took cudgel yes with all his might suffice as his neck , and the FY- FY- FY ! .. 
Whistles . "Oh , Grandpa , Grandpa ! But how cool whistled Shabarsha - azhno I spark from his eyes fell , barely rose 
from the ground , and on the neck to the waist so , I think , all the bones broken "-" Wow ! Not strong enough to know , 
you little devil ! Go - tissue , take it in the reeds , my iron club , but try one of you vskinet above it on the air? "


Imp took the baton , slung it over his shoulder and went to Shabarshe . "Well, Shabarsha grandfather told last try : one 
of us up into the air vskinet this club ? " - " Well, you throw it before, and I'll see ." Raised his baton imp - high 
up she flew like a dot in the sky is black ! Hardly waited until the ground has fallen ... Took Shabarsha club - hard ! 
Put it on the end of the legs , leaned his hand and began to gaze at the sky. " Why do not you throw ? What are you 
waiting ? "- Asks imp . " I'm waiting out Ent cloud approach - I Throw up at her club , there sits my brother blacksmith 
, he is useful to the case of iron ." - " Oh, no , Shabarsha ! Do not throw the baton on a cloud , and then angry 
grandpa ! " Imp snatched the baton and dived to his grandfather .


I heard from my grandfather granddaughter that Shabarsha very nearly threw his baton , not a little scared and told to 
pull out of the pool of money to pay off yes . Imp dragged dragged - money , too many peretaskali - cap and all is not 
complete ! " Well , Grandpa , to a miracle in Shabarshi Beanie ! All the money in her hauled , and it is still empty. 
Now was your last chest . " - " Bring it and soon ! Rope - he weaves ? "-" Viet, Grandpa! "-" That's it! " Nothing to do 
, Poch imp cherished grandfather chest became pour Shabarshovu cap - showered showered ...
hardly added ! Since that time , since that time has healed the servant boy to glory to him calling me honey - drink 
beer , but I did not go honey, say , was bitter and dull beer . Why would a parable ?
