
Sabe grandfather lived yes woman, and had them three sons, two reasonable, and the third a fool - for imyani Ivan, nicknamed stare. Yong twelve years lyazhav in popyale1, vopaslya TAGO standing of stare and shook off the yak, duck from Iago zlyatelo six pounds stare. In that realm, where Ivan was alive, it was not the day, and all night; ETA zrabiv snakes. In Ivan and abazvavsya shtob istrabit etago snake, and Kazha svaymu dad: "Tattoo! Zrabi mini kutsabu2 five pounds. " Uzyavshi fifth kutsabu, Yong Pashov on the field and throwing Re ugaru3 and Pashov damov. The next day Ivan sew on the field, on the toy place where padkinuv kutsabu, having set his forehead - yak lyatit melting kutsaba yak Iago hit in the forehead, and broke nadvoya.
Ivan sew damov and the Kazha svaymu dad: "Tattoo! Zrabi mini kutsabu another ten pounds. " Uzyavshi fifth kutsabu, Ivan Pashov on the field and even throwing frenzy Re: lyatela melting kutsaba three days and three nights. On the fourth day
215
Ivan Pashov on toy space - yak lyatit melting kutsaba; Yong pointing a kaleno and melting kutsaba divided into three parts. Stare, prishovshi damov, zagadav4 dad zrabit third kutsabu at fifteen pounds. Uzyav fifth kutsabu, sew on the field and padkinuv intoxication Re: lyatela melting kutsaba six days. On the day sёmy Ivan Pashov on toy space; lyatit melting kutsaba yak udaritstsa ab forehead Ivan duck already padavsya forehead. In Yong Kazha: "Eta kutsaba spendest snake!"
In, Sabran, with his brother Ivan paehav pabivat TAGO snake. By eating by eating Yong yes, already stait hut on chicken legs, but in the Hatz Givet snakes. Jana tamatka5 astanavilis. Ivan Pavesi pile gloves yes Kazha brother: "Yak of maih mittens patyache blood, duck resort ka pomach me." Saying ETA, Ivan Pashov at the hut and sat pad mastom6 - as much by eating snakes on three Galavit: horse spatknuvsya, Sabaki howled, falcon zatvelev7. Snakes gavorya "Chago you horse spatknuvsya, Sabaki howled, falcon zatvelev?" - "Mini Yakzha not spatykatstsa - Kazha horse - potassium pad mastitis syadit Ivan stare." In snakes and Kazha "Vyhadi Single Court, Ivan! Pameryaem taboyu with force. " Yong leaving, and became Yana bitstsa. Ivan pabiv TAGO snake and the sowing iznova pad bridge.
By eating other snakes in six Galavit; Yong and Tago snake pabiv - as much by eating three to twelve Galavit. Yong and fifth becoming bitstsa and zbiv pit nine Halovit not become the serpent power. Looking Yana - already lyatit thief and shouted: "Blood! Blood! "Snakes and Kazha Tamu voranu" yes Lyati Maya Zhonka; Jan seize Ivan Popyalova. " And Yong Kazha "Lyati to mayim brother; Yak Yana arrives, we etago snake kill and tyabe astavim meat. " Voran pasluhav Ivan firing to Iago and the brothers became croak over their Galavit. Braty prasnulis and pachuvshi voranav cry pabegli on pomach to his brother; Tago killed the snake, took Galavit kites, and prishovshi to Iago hut Yana razlamili Galavit - and becoming white light pas vsyamu kingdom.
Pabivshi snake with his brother Ivan stare paehav damov and forgetting to take the gloves; vyalev brother padazhdat Iago, and the vyarnuvsya for gloves. Yak padehav to the hut and take hatev gloves, looking - as many as there zmeiha and kites daughter razmavlyayut8 pramezh saboyu. Yong zrabivsya khat and even becoming kurnyavkat9 pad doors. Yana let Iago in the hut. Yong, vysluhavshi everything INTO Yana Ghawar, gloves and grabbed pabeg. Have initiated brothers, sitting on the canoe; Yana and in paehali. Go Yana yes go; in sight of a green meadow, and on the meadow padushki shavkovye. During brothers and seem "Papasёm tutochka10 Kania themselves addyshem." 11 Ivan Kazha "Pastoytya, boys!" - Yes, uzyavshi kutsabu, striking pas padushkam; from tyh padushak patyakla blood.
In Jana paehali further. Go, go - already stait yablanka, and on the yablanke Zalata and srebryanye yablachki. During brothers and seem "Davaytya zedim yablachku pas." Ivan gavorya "Pastoytya, brothers! I paprobuyu "- and uzyavshi kutsabu, striking pas that yablane; Re patyakla of blood. Yana and paehali further. Yana go go yeah, in sight of krynitsa12. Brothers and seem "Napёmsya vada." And Ivan stare and gavorya: "Wait, my friends!" Uzyavshi
216
kutsabu, Yong striking pas Krynica, and from that vada zrabilasya blood. Meadow, shavkovye padushki, yablanya and Krynica - ETA were all daughters kites.
Pabivshi kites dochak Ivan stare paehav damov with his brother - as much for their lyatit zmeiha, razzyavila mouth hell yeah earth and sky hatel praglinut13 Ivan, Ivan and brother Iago threw her three poods of salt. Jan praglinula fifth salt padumavshi INTO then Ivan stare and dale yak rassmakavala14 fifth salt and ubachila15 INTO eta not Ivan, pabegla znova followed.
In Yong bacha INTO trouble, yak sprinted canoe and the skhavavsya16 have to forge Kuzma and Demyan twelve doors. Zmeiha prilyatela and the Kazha Kuzma and Demyan "Addaytya mini Ivan Popyalova!" And Yana seem "Pralizhi language twelve doors and even take it!" Zmeiha conceived lick the door; and Jana razagreli iron tongs, and yak only yang prasunula tongue smithy - Jana Re grasp of the language and began to beat Malatya. By killing zmeihu, bedrooms and popyal pas wind scattered, and themselves paehali damov; dwelt pazhivat yes, yes piravat walk, yes honey wine papivat. And I was there having been, wine beers, and in the company were not, and pas Barad only tyaklo.
