Soldiers asked to go on a vacation, packed up and went for a hike. 

Shel- go , nowhere to be seen water , what would it crunches pomochit yes on the way on the road to have a snack , and a long time in the belly is empty. Nothing to do - 
dragged on; 

looking - running brook , brook approached it , took out three biscuit backpack and put it in the water. Yes 
there was still a soldier violin , in idle time on it he played a variety of songs , clocked boredom . That soldier sat 
beside the stream , picked up his violin and began to play softly . Suddenly, out of nowhere - comes to him as an old 
man unclean , with a book in his hands. "Hello , Mr. Service " - " Wow , good man ! " Damn already winced as the 
soldiers called him a good man . "Listen , buddy , change : I'll give you my book , and you give me a violin ." - " Ah , 
the old , what do I need your book ? I served at least ten years the emperor , and had never been competent , did not 
know before , and now too late to learn "-" Nothing , soldier ! I have the book - who neither look , just be able to 
read "-" Well let me - try it! "

Deployed soldiers and began to read the book , as if from childhood literacy skills , was delighted and immediately 
traded his violin . Tainted took violin bow started to drive , and it is not glued - not in his game no fret. "Listen , 
brother, - he said the soldier - stay -ka my guest for three days so instructive to play the violin ; say thank you " - 
" No, man - meets soldiers - I have to come back, but for three days I will go away . " - "Please , soldier , if yes 
stay teach the violin to play , I will one day deliver home - on postage triple


'll take . " The soldier sitting in meditation : to be or not? And he takes the crumbs from the creek - it wants a snack 
. "Oh , brother serviceman - says unclean - bad your food , eat of my -ka ! " Untied bag and pulled out a white bread , 
roast beef , vodka and any snacks : eat - do not want !

Soldiers ate , drank , and agreed to remain at that old man and a stranger to teach him to play the violin . Progostil 
with him three days , and to go home ; hell removes it from its chorus - front porch worth triple good horses . " Sit 
down , soldier ! Instantly 'll take . " Soldiers sat in the wagon with the devil , and as picked up their horses as 
incurred - only a mile in his eyes flashed ! Dovezli spirit . "What you learn this village ? " - Asks the unclean. " How 
could I not know ! - Responsible soldiers. - Indeed, in this country I was born and raised . " - " Well , good-bye ! " 
Soldier of tears from the wagon came to srodstvennikam , began to greet them but himself to tell when and by how much it 
from the shelf released. Seemed to him that he stayed with unclean away only three days, and in fact stayed with him for 
three years ; holiday period ended long ago , and the regiment , tea, he is considered a fugitive .

Abashed soldier does not know what to do to him! And is he coming to mind revelry ! Outside the village came out and 
thinking, " Where to now go? If the regiment to go - so there gauntlet driven . Oh , unclean , nicely you joke on me . " 
Only uttered the word , and the unclean right there. "Do not grieve , soldier ! Stay with me - because you have the 
unenviable habitation in the regiment , but fed crackers sticks beat , and I'm happy to do ... You want a merchant to do
? "-" That's okay ; merchants live well , let me try and happiness! " Unclean made him a merchant , gave him a large 
metropolitan city in the shop with different expensive goods and says, "Now , brother, farewell! I leave you to distant 
lands , tridesyatom State ; tamoshnego at King has a lovely daughter Marja - princess , I will torture her in every way 
! "

Our lives merchant, nothing grieves ; happiness itself and brings down the yard ; trade him this task , it is better to 
require the impossible! He became jealous of other merchants . "Let's - they say - he was asked what sort of man is he , 
and where he came from , and can lead bargaining ? After all, he had us all trade tipped - plague on him ! " Came to him 
, he was interrogated and he says to them:" Brothers, you are mine ! Now I have come many cases , once you talk , come 
back tomorrow - all know. " Merchants have gone home ; soldiers and thinking what to do ? As an answer to give? Thought 
and thought and decided to quit his shop and go out of the city at night . Here he took all the money was there , and 
went tridesyatom state.

Shel- going and coming to the frontier . " What kind of man ? " - Asks him time . He replies: "I - doctor ; go to your 
kingdom , because your king 's daughter is sick ; want to cure it ." Local reported about that court , the court was 
brought to the king himself. King called for a soldier , "If you cure my daughter will give her to you in marriage ." - 
"Your Majesty , tell me give three decks of cards , three bottles of wine and three bottles of sweet hot alcohol , three 
pounds of nuts, three pounds

lead bullets and three beam candle wax rabid . " - "Well , we are ready ! " Soldier waited pm , bought a violin and went 
to the princess , lit candles in her upper room , started drinking , walking, playing on a violin .

At midnight comes unclean , he heard music and ran to the soldier: "Hello , brother " - " Wow! " - " What do you drink ? 
" - " Kvasok sip ." - " Give me " - " Very well ! " - And offered him a glass full of hot alcohol ; damn drunk - and 
rolled his eyes at his forehead : "Ah , hard picks ! Give me something to bite . " - " That's nuts , take yes Eat ! " - 
Says the soldier , and the lead bullets slips. Damn chewing - biting , teeth just broke . They began to play cards , 
while this and that - the time has gone , roosters cried and unclean gone. King asks the princess : "What a night sleep 
? " - " Thank God quietly ! " And the other night just passed , and by the third night asks the king's soldiers : "Your 
Majesty ! Order of fifty pounds forge tongs yes make three copper rod , three iron rod and three tin . " - "Well, it's 
done ! "

In the dead of night is unclean . "Hello , soldier ! Again, I come to you for a walk . " - "Hello ! Who is not happy 
cheerful comrade ! " Began to drink - walk. Tainted saw ticks and asks: " What is that ? " - " Yes , you see , the king 
took me to his service but forced musicians to teach the violin , and they all have something curves fingers - not your 
best , it is necessary to rectify the ticks . " - "Oh , brother - begged unclean - whether it is possible and I 
straighten the fingers ? And then until now do not know how to play the violin . " - "Why not? Put your fingers here . " 
Damn put both hands in a vise ; soldiers pressed them , squeezed , then grabbed the bars and let him regale ; beats and 
repeating : " Here's the merchants ! " Damn prays devil asks : " Let go, perhaps ! Thirty miles will not come to the 
palace ! " And he castigates know . Jumping - jumping traits spun - spun , violence erupted and the soldier said : " 
Even though you're going to marry the princess , and my hands will not leave ! Otedesh only thirty miles from the city - 
now grab you, " He said and disappeared.

Here is the princess married to a soldier and lived with her in love and harmony , and a few years later the king died , 
and he began to manage the whole realm. At one time there was a new king , with his wife in the garden walk. " Oh, what 
a nice garden " - he says. "This is what a garden ! - Meets the queen . - Do we have another garden in the country , 
twenty miles from here , that there is something to admire ! " King went there and met with the queen , only he got out 
of the carriage , and the unclean meet :" You what ? Is forgot what you said! Well, brother, blame myself , but now my 
paws will not break away . " - " What ! Seen , is my fate ! Allow at least with his young wife to say goodbye . " - " 
Say goodbye , but hurry ! .. "
