There once was a man and he had three sons. 

Eldest son went to hired laborers, came to town and was hired to the merchant and the merchant 
 where he was mean and harsh! 
 
 
Only one speech and kept how cock sing and get up laborer, yes get to work. 

Hard, tough guy seemed, he lived for a week and returned home. 

Went middle son, lived a merchant about a week, could not resist and took payment. 

"Father, - says the youngest son - let me, I'll go as a laborer to the merchant." 

- "Where are you, fool! Knew I could sit on the stove! 

Better you go, yes tossed with nothing." 

- "Well, what you want, and I'll go!" 

Said and went to the merchant: 

"Hello, merchant " 
- "Hello , young man !What good do you think?"

 - " Hire me as a laborer." 
 
 - "Very well, just me ,my brother, like a rooster sings - so and go to work all day." 
 
 - "Banner case: hire that sold" 
 
 - "And that will take?" 
 
 - " What's wrong with you take? 
 
 Year live - you click yes merchant's pinch, nothing else." 
 
 - "Okay , well done! - The owner is responsible, and he thinks - What a grace! That's when cheap hired, so cheap!"



Vvecheru laborer contrived , caught cock , wrapped his head in the sand and lay down to sleep . Too long past midnight , 
the case goes to the morning - it's time to wake the laborer , but the cock sings ! Sun rose into the sky - laborer 
himself awake. " Well , boss, let's have breakfast , go to work time ." Breakfast and spent the day until the evening 
twilight again caught a rooster , his head wrapped in a wing and fell asleep until morning. On the third night the same 
again . Diva was given merchant, that in this parable with a cock : quite ceased to tear the throat ! " I will go - I 
think - the village , look for another cock ." Went to look for merchant cock and took with him a laborer .

That's the way they go and meet them, four men are the bull , the bull and the same - a big yes feisty ! Hardly on the 
ropes will keep ! "Where , my friends ? " - Asks the laborer . "Yes bull to slaughter conduct ." - "Oh , thank you! Four 
bull lead , and here and one has nothing to do ! " Came up to the bull , gave him in the forehead and killed click to 
death ; afterward grabbed a pinch for the skin - all the skin off! Merchant as he saw what had laborer clicks yes tweaks 
hurt become sad , forgot all about cock , returned home and became a merchant's wife to keep the council as they trouble 
- mount serve ? " And that's what - said the merchant's wife - we will send Single laborer late at night in the woods , 
we say that a cow from the herd did not come , let him eat ferocious beasts " - " Okay ! " Waited evening dined ; 
merchant's wife came into the yard , stood by the porch , is a house and farm laborer said , "What are you cows in the 
barn has not tired ? After one - is hornless , no! "-" Yes , I think they were all ... "-" That's all ! Go quickly to 
the forest and look for good . "

Farmhand dressed, took the baton and wandered into the dense forest , how many have walked through the woods - not to 
see any cows , but began to look closely scrutinize - is a bear in a den , and laborer thinks - that cow. " Oh dear , 
where wormed , damn ! And I'm looking for you all night . " And let's bear upsetting batons beast took to their heels , 
and laborer grabbed him by the neck , dragged home and shouted: " Open up the gate , take the belly ! " He sent out a 
bear in the barn and locked with the cows . Now bear cows began to choke yes break ; night all to one and decided to do 
. The next morning the merchant said laborer with Merchant's Wife : "After all, cow 's what I found ." - "Come , wife , 
let's see what a cow he found in the woods? " Let's go to the barn , opened the door , looking - cow smothered , and in 
the corner sits a bear . "What are you , stupid , done? Why bear the barn brought ? He all the cows we decided to do "-" 
Wait same - says


laborer - can not escape him for death! " rushed into the barn , gave the bear click - and the spirit of it out! " Poor 
thing - thinking merchant - savage beasts him uneasy. Is one hell with it to cope ! Go - says farm laborer - at the mill 
so damn served me with great Gather with unclean money , in debt taken from me , and give not give "-" Very well - meets 
laborer - why not render such trifles ? "

Horse harnessed to a cart and drove damn mill , came and sat down on the dam began to twist the rope . Suddenly jumped 
out of the water demon : " The lad ! What are you doing ? "-" Tea, see for yourself : rope twist . " - " What do you 
want the rope ? " - " I want you devils , yes drag the sun to dry , and then you're damned , quite peremokli " - " What 
are you saying , Peon ! We'll have done nothing amiss . " - "Why did my master not pay debts ? I suppose able to hold "
-" Wait a bit , I'll ask a senior , "- said the devil and dove into the water . Farmhand Now for a shovel , dug a deep 
hole , covered her top brushwood poseredke Shlyk its Charter, and in Shlyk - hole cut through it ahead of time .



Damn popped farm laborer and said : " The senior asks how will you devils drag? After all, our bottomless whirlpools . " 

- "The great importance ! I'm on a rope that is this: as much as you took it for , you will not reach the end of all . " 

- " Come on , show ! " Peon tied both ends of their ropes and gave hell , so that pacing - pacing , pacing , pacing , 
all end no. " Did you get much debt to pay? " - " Yes, that's mound this Shlyk silver, just be ." Damn dived into the 
water , told me about all the firstborn was a pity the old part with money and nothing to do, it's shell . Laborer 
poured full impact and silver brought to the merchant . " That's the trouble is it ! And it does not take a damn ! "


Became a merchant with a merchant's wife persuades run away from home , the merchant's wife baked breads cakes yes , 
naklala two bags and lay down to rest, so that the forces of the night to come so from laborer to leave. A laborer 
dumped out of the bag cakes and bread and instead of one put a millstone , and in another he climbed ; sitting - not 
vorohnetsya and held his spirit ! Night woke merchant merchant's wife , shouldered the bag itself on the shoulder and 
ran from the yard . A laborer takes a voice out of the bag : " Hey, boss with the hostess ! Hey, take me with you . " - 
" I learned a damn ! Drives us "- said the merchant and the merchant's wife to run more shibche ; during both scream ! 
Saw merchant lake, stopped , dropped shoulder bag with " a rest - he says - just a little ! " A laborer responds : " 
Hush throw , boss! All sides will break . " - "Oh, laborer , you're here! " - " Here ! "

Well , well , decided to spend the night on the beach and went to all side by side . "Look , my wife - says the merchant 
- as soon asleep laborer , we throw it into the water ." Farmhand not sleep , tossing and turning from side to side 
reloaded . Yes merchant merchant's wife waited , waited and slept ; laborer immediately took off his sheepskin hat yes , 
put on merchant's wife , and he dressed in her shubeyku and wakes host : " Get up, take a laborer in the lake! " 
Merchant stood , picked up two of them sleeping merchant's wife and thrown into the water. "What are you , the host, did 
it? - Shouted laborer . - What merchant's wife drowned ? " Doing nothing merchant returned home with a farm laborer , 
laborer and he served for a year but gave it a click on the 
forehead - and only lived a merchant ! Farmhand took him his name and began to live happily ever after , good store up , 
dashing izbyvat .
