Near Kiev emerged snakes, he took a lot of people exactions : from each household on the red maid , and the girl will eat her . Came to go to the snake king's daughter . Princess snakes seized and dragged her to his lair , and it did not have : a beauty she was, for the wife took myself . Kite fly on their crafts and princess fill up the logs , so as not to leave. I was the princess of the dog, to reconcile with her ​​out of the house . Write , happened , Princess note to my father with my mother , impose on the dog 's neck , and she will run , where necessary , and will still answer . Here again the king and queen and write to the princess , know who is stronger than a snake ? Princess became affable to his snake , he began to try to find who it stronger. He did not speak for a long time , but time and blabbed that lives in the city of Kiev Kozhumyaka - and that it is stronger. Heard about what the princess wrote to my father : syschite in Kiev Nikita Kozhemyako yes send it to rescue me from captivity .

The king , having received such a message , find Nikita Kozhemyako yes he went to ask him to release his land from Dire snake and rescued the princess . At that time, Nikita skin crushed, he held in his hands twelve skins , how he saw that he was visited by the king himself , trembling with fear , his hands began to tremble - and he tore those twelve skins . Yes, no matter how much the king and queen begged Kozhemyako , he did not go suprotiv snake . That came up to collect five thousand children are minors , and forced them to ask Kozhemyako : maybe their tears szhalobitsya ! Nikita came to the juvenile began tearfully asks that he walked suprotiv snake . Tears himself Kozhumyaka Nikita , looking at their tears . Took three pounds of hemp , nasmolil pitch and all -taki is wrapped to not eat snakes , and went at it .

Good to Nikita den snake , snakes and locked himself and does not go to him. " Come out better in the open field , and then marked up the den ! " - Said Kozhumyaka and began breaking the door already . Snakes , seeing trouble neminuchuyu , came to him in the open field . Long or short it fought the serpent Nikita Kozhumyaka only threw the snake . Here snakes begged Nikita : " Do not beat me to death , Nikita Kozhumyaka ! Stronger than you and I in no light ; divide the whole earth, the whole world equally , and thou shalt live in one half , and I in another . " - "Well, - said Kozhumyaka - should pave Mezhuyev ." Nikita did plow into three pounds , harnessed in her snake , and from Kiev became Mezhuyev intertill ; Nikita spent furrow from Kiev to sea Kavstriyskogo . "Well, - says snakes - now we have divided the whole earth " - " the earth was divided , - said Nikita - let's divide the sea , and then you say that you take your water ." Vzehal snakes into the middle of the sea, Nikita Kozhumyaka killed and drowned him in the sea. This groove and is now visible ; gallows that furrow two fathoms. Around her plow furrow and do not touch , and who do not know from what this furrow - calls her shaft. Nikita Kozhumyaka , make holy thing, did not take anything for a job , he went again to crush the skin .
