How was the grandfather grandmother da , da of them had two daughters : one grandfather, and the other Babin. Santa had a daughter so that always gives early ustavala all done , and Babin as it does nothing ! Behold grandmother once sent them to popryahy "Go well - said - that gives me a lot napryaly ." Grandfather daughter into the world got all da spun and Babin in the evening just as popryala little bit, yes and no longer spun .

In the morning , as the world was, they went home, they should have been in the same place where perelaz1 climb. Babin daughter climbed forward and says, "Give me sister , your pochynky2 , I poderzhu , pokil you climbed ." And she appointed under , so it taking them , went home yes and said, "Look , Mom, as I napryala and sister as subordinate in the evening , DAK not ustavala to the world !" And he came as no bozhylas that then its Mending , DAK Where - grandmother and hearing did not want one of her and she did not like before , and yes nav'yazalas his grandfather : " Where will you there din3 his daughter , only to have it durno4 not eat bread ! ".

That old man harnessed the mare da daughter sat on the cart , and he sat down, yea , and drove off. leaving the forest , until there is a hut on chicken legs. Santa took his daughter and took in da house and hut was odchynena5 yes and said, " Ostavaysya same donyu6 here, and I will go drovets will cut to cook porridge was nothing ." Yes he left the house and went to da only tied to okonnytsi pin feather .

Pin feather raps , and her daughter and says. " This is my chops drovtsya my friend !" When a knock , hurkotyt7 mare's head , "Who is in my house, odchyny !" Girl got up and odchynyla . "Girl , girl ! Transplanted across the threshold . " She boarded . "Girl , girl ! Postel my bed . " She put it . "Girl , girl ! I 'll lay down on a floor "8. She laid . "Girl , girl ! Are covered me. " She ukryla . "Girl , girl ! Uliz to me in the right ear , while the left will come out . "

120

She got out of the ears , DAK became so good that kraschoyi9 not. Now and become lackeys , horses and carriage , she sat in the carriage and went to da father. Come into the house and her father knew: a sequence she told them what it was. That woman up'yat stuck to his grandfather : " take me and my daughter Tuda , Where drove her ."

Santa and Babi Tuda same odviz and set him in the house , ordered himself to wait , it will cut wood pokil . Only the pozhdala bit, principle cry that she ostalas in the Woods: up op'yat knock , roar mare's head , "Who is in my house, odchyny " - " Not a great lady, and she odchynysh " - says the girl. "Girl , girl ! Transplanted me over the threshold . " - " Not a great lady, and she climbed ." - " Girl , girl ! Postel my bed . " - " Not a great lady, and she couches ." - " Girl , girl ! I 'll lay down on a floor . " - " Not a great lady, and she lie ." - " Girl , girl ! Are covered me. " - " Not a great lady, and she ukryyeshsya ."

Togda mare's head and ate shvatylas Babin daughter in da kistochky10 & Shiny and hung , and the op'yat ushla . Dog prybizhala to Baba da beginning Braham , " Woof , woof ! Grandfather daughter as a young lady , and Babin daughter in the bag pipes ! " What prozhene11 her grandmother , she op'yat and come running. Only the grandmother and grandfather said : " I ​​Go da see that there with my daughter is ." So my grandfather went and brought in the bag pipes, duck angry woman gives dog and killed .
Snosky

Snosky k p 119

1 Single ili two machine too , polozhennыh for udobstva climbs through the wicker.

2 Pochinok - yarn , namotannaya on the spindle .

3 Deva day.

4 free.

5 Otvorena .

6 daughter .

7 Krychyt , noisy.

8 Vozvыshennыy dais in krestyanskyh yzbah , zamenyayuschyy bed.
