In a village , there lived a rich man with his wife . Here again she went to the forest to milk mushrooms , get
lost and 
wandered into a bear 's den . Bear took her to him, and for a long time or a short - caught on to her son : Time 
to man 
, and from the waist bear ; mother called that son Ivanko Medvedko . Years passed but walked . Ivanko Medvedko 
grew , 
and he wanted to go with her mother to the village people , they waited , when the bear went to the bee house , 
packed 
up and fled. Ran, ran and got the same to the place. Saw the man 's wife , was delighted - it's not looked for it 
, that 
she ever came back home , and then looked at her son and asks, " What is this monster ? " His wife told him all 
that was 
and how she lived in den with a bear and how bore him a son : Time to man , and from the waist bear.

"Well, Ivanko Medvedko - says the man , - go to the backyard but slay a sheep , not about the cook you lunch ." - 
" And 
those who slay ? " - " Well, at least the one that you look at will be ." Ivanko Medvedko took a knife , went to 
the 
backyard and only skrichal sheep - all sheep and stared at him . Medvedko immediately perekolol all , they took 
off with 
sandpaper and went to ask : where to lay their meat and skins ? "How ? - Roared at him man. - I told you to kill 
one 
sheep , and you're all cut "-" No, dad ! You told me that slaughter , which takes a look at me , and I to the 
back yard 
- they are every one look at me and stared ; willingly Well they were staring at me ! "-" What a Razumnik ! Go 
well , 
take down all the meat and hides in the barn , and at night to guard the door in the barn - how thieves would not 
steal 
so dogs would not eat "-" Well, to guard . "

As luck would have , on the same night has a thunderstorm and heavy rain poured . Ivanko Medvedko Vylomov at the 
barn 
door, carried her to the bath , and stayed there all night . Time was dark , thieves handy ; open barn , no guard 
- take 
what you want ! Man woke up in the morning and went to see whether all intact ? As there is nothing left : that 
dogs ate 
, and that thieves pokrali . He began to look for the guard found him in the bath and began to scold than ever. 
"Oh, dad 
! What was I to blame? - Ivanko said Medvedko . - You're the guard ordered the door - the door and I stood guard 
: here 
it is! Nor thieves do not steal , nor dogs

ate "-" What a fool to do? - Thinking man. - What a month or two will live , most will ruin ! How to sell him out 
? " 
That's far-fetched : the next day sent Ivanka Medvedka lake of sand rope twist , and in that lake many impure 
vodilos 
let him de zataschat devils into the maelstrom !

Ivanko Medvedko went to the lake and sat on the bank and began to twist a rope of sand . Suddenly out of the water imp , 
"What are you doing, Medvedko ? " - " What? Rope twist ; lake want to wrinkle so you devils , pose - then that live in 
our whirlpools and rugi1 not pay . " - " Wait, Medvedko ! I'll run my grandfather say , "- and with that word plop into 
the water. Five minutes later popped up again , "Grandpa said, if you have Stretches so rugu pay , and if he does not 
Stretches - told you to drag himself into the maelstrom ." - " You see quick ! Well, where do you overtake me? - Ivanko 
said Medvedko . - I have a grandson, just yesterday the people - and that will overtake you ! Do not you want to compete 
with them ? "-" What-a grandson ? "-" Look under the deck is - responsible Medvedko yes scream like a hare : - Ah
, 
Zayushko not podgadil ! " Hare rushed unconscious to the open field and in a moment out of sight ; devil was 
behind it , 
but where ? - For half a mile behind . "Now , if you will - says he Medvedko - flee with me, only brother, with 
persuasion : if lag behind - I 'll kill you to death " - " What! " - Said the devil - and plop into the pool .

A little later again jumped out of the water and brought Grandpa iron crutch , "Grandpa said, if you're here this 
vskinesh crutch higher than I Throw up , so pay rugu ." - "Well, you throw things first ! " Devilish crutch 
raised so 
high that it almost became evident : with a terrible roar crutch flew back and went into the ground half. " Throw 
you 
now ! " Medvedko imposed on a crutch arm and could not move . "Wait - he says - that will soon come a cloud , so 
it will 
spread " - " Oh, no ! How did my grandfather without a crutch is something to be ? "- Said the imp , grabbed the 
baton 
and ran damn hurry into the water.

Again a little later popped up , "Grandpa said, if you can enclose the horse round the lake at least once once suprotiv 
me, so pay rugu , then go away and not himself into the maelstrom ." - "Eco miracle ! Begin . " Imp hump horse 
and 
dragged round the lake , ten times have hedged and damned tired - and sweat pours from the snout ! " Well, now 
it's my 
turn ! " - Said Ivanko Medvedko , got on his horse and riding well go all around lakes until ridden until the 
horse has 
fallen ! " Well, brother ! What ? "- Asks the imp . "Well, - said the unclean - you more than I wore , and how! - 
Between the legs , and that way I never enclose ! How Well rugi pay? "-" And that's how : a mound of gold yeah my 
hat I 
served a year in workers - with me and pretty ! "


Imp ran for the gold, and Ivanko Medvedko cut in the bottom of the hat and put it over a deep yamoyu ; imp wore wore 
gold

showered - sprinkled into the hat , the whole day working, but only in the evening fully sprinkled . Ivanko Medvedko 
extracted cart, naklal her gold coins and SVEZA on home imp " get rich , dad ! Here's a farm laborer , and that's gold "
