Not in how charstvi not in any state , as zhiv2 pop, pop udov3 and how dad was at evtago Assoc Iago of radium . ETA , 
bratits you like byareg en Re , and as en or ride in kudy parish en zavsyagdy vyazets her gastintsyki : scho evta 
parishioners znayuts scho es Assoc at nashago dad and she somehow nadabits gastintsyka paslats . And coming from paehav 
ene - twelve miles dzerevnya , well, ETA en s pritsastyam paehav and there en pritsastiv tsalaveka ; Okay, and Iago 
pribyaryagli4 votsinna5 Harashi . Well, ene and forgetting schoby gastintsa dotski given well, and sat ene s Evtimov and 
paehav Damov .

And pas en edzits daroga and garits tsalavetstsaya Galava on daroga and usya6 zgarela only popil7 Yadin astaettsy . Yong 
was praehav , Pat and uzdumav : " Well I praehav sche ? Vidzy tsalvetstsaya Galava garits , let me vazmu have pocket 
evtat papyalok settled, communication and Damov pagryabu . " Well, in the pocket en uzyal Iago and strewn sitting on 
loshadz apyats and paehav Damov . Well, priyazhdzhaits to Deuteronomy

and Iago suvstrikaits8 dotska , s loshadzi znimaits Iago , Iago zabalela Galava , visible s wind and yang Spaatz Iago 
palazhila on Pyarin . Well, Pat yang uzdumala ETA : "Oh, my batsyushka Well nyabos gastintsa brought ! " Jan and tsap9 
in pocket ; evtat Ms. papyalok abarativsya lartsykam . Well, ETA yang vyhvatsila etat lartsyk and kazhits10 : " Well, 
lartsyk ! Harashi ; nya and know how Iago atlazhits " 11. Well, that's yang vyhvatsila and licked and Iago zabyareminila 
. Hto nosits pas nyadzelyam and yang na tsasam ; dayshlo yes Tago uremya12 scho radzits and Radzi , well , siytsas 
stalemate and ahristsili Iago , he called the name of Hopes , popes Unuk .

Pat becoming RosCem etat maladzenits13 ; hto rastsets pas reptiles and en pas tsasam ; shests14 nyadzel end - on Vulitch 
to ryabyata shulugu15 ganyats payshov . Vdarits en pas shuluge , shuluga lyatsits only zvizhzhit ; kama vdarits in Naga 
- Naga percent , kama vdarits at hand - so hand percent , kama at Galavit - Galava percent . ETA attsy Eutychus dzyatsey 
prihodzyats to svyaschelniku and Etam , and prihodzyats to svyaschelniku s prozbay " Batsyushka ! Neither puschaytse 
svaygo Unuk on Vulitch gulyats to children , many en bolna16 shkody17 dzelaets . " Cator gavorits - Maimu Galavit 
adarvav , other gavorits - Maimu adarvav hand ; nor puschaytse , gavoryuts , batsyushka as possible .

Well Harashi could ene vuzderzhats Iago to samago summer ; ene vyras paryadashnay and gavorits en : " Well, dzedushka 
lyubeznay scho Well we Budz dzelats - rabatats ? " Dryanno18 Jodo Iago uzradovavsya and gavorits " Assoc May dear ! Tabe 
gospadzi glory ! - Gavorits . - Giving God naslednitska kakog ; paslav god ! And Kakei hlapatney ! 19 Scho I'll s 
dzelats him ? Well, Stan rabatats . Poydzim - gavorits - unutsyk my lyada20 dumped . " - " Poydzim , dzedushka ! "

And zayshli yana from Balota , and chose yana pripadobnaya21 taco place . Jodo becoming natsynats spruce valits , ene ( 
grandson ) gavorits " Dzedushka you nya potsynay , blaslavi me ." - " Well - gavorits dzedushka - unutsyk god tsyabe 
blaslavits ! " Yong siytsas as natsav as putz yes as becoming valits Adnan forest tryaschits , so syakanets s yadnago 
sides Thapar with other dzeriva palyatsela . Yes dvenadtsataga ZASU en dumped paltary dyasatsiny Lyada . Jodo kazhits : 
" Need to whip meltsya22 yes burn ." A ene gavorits " Dzedushka , and so we grudde23 skladzem ."


In three days ETA Lyada paspela seyats . Uzyali yana s Jodo and paseyali yes vradzivsya w aves , so etakay niskazannoy 
aves . Well, in pavadzivsya evtat myadzvedz aves . Pasmatrev pop skhadimshi , Lyada - many zedzina ABCA . Prihodzits en 

Damov , sprashivaits Unuk " Scho , dzedushka , ti kakavo our Lyada ? " - " Cheesy unutsyk , Harashi only w povadzilas 
some loshadz Dzik , and a lot of crappy is24 zyanu zdzelala ." - "How so dzedushka how much I trudivsya and yang 
evtakaya rascal , how many zyanu nadzelala !



Paid pakaravulyu . Payschi - tissue Kolka me neither es pyanotski " 25. North ene zviv abrots26 , paabedav in forest 
payshov . Prihodzits ene Lyada and vdivivsya ene removed Dobray moladzits : "Oh, my god , Kolka Skoda zdzelala , 
tsirpets nivazmozhna " - and sat en sired Lyada at stumps . Well, sidzits : Pat siytsas myadzvedz idzits s forest, and 
the line y aves and vznyavsya27 and paens28 smunits29 aves . Yong , getting moladzits and vdivivsya " Scho Well evta for 
diva , I have never seen evtakih lashadzey ; scho b eta for akaziya such as yang aves kastits " 30.


ETA padhodzits ene - myadzvedz - to nyamu close to the very stump ka . Myadzvedz etaga nor vnyvaits31 scho tsalavek 
staits ; ene dumaits scho ETA stump staits and padhodzits nyamu to close . Yong siytsas sa stump and DAC Iago for Wuxi , 
and grasping , grasping and ETA pritisnuv zyamli to Iago . Myadzvedz dumaits : scho Takei and hatsev papravittsa ; well 
vuzh cognition en pit and papyastsa32 nya giving , uzyav Iago etay abrottyu zabratav33 and Damov povev . And BEB en Iago 
Damov , myadzvezd Kako dzeriva zahvatsits - s roots varotsits . Well, pref en Iago Damov tied sired Dwar to Stalbe and 
prihodzits have vyzbu . " Well, you gospadzi - gavorits - what loshadz , dzedushka , corroded ! As I umarivsya , 
tyanumshi Re Damov ! " Jodo exceeds the yard and vzhahnuvsya34 . " Pasmatri - tissue - gavorits - assoc May kindly scho 
thy son, and my unutsyk zdzelav " - Kolka time dzivavilisya yana . Ene < grandson > gavorits "No dzivuytsisya and 
gavorti scho we over etay loshaddyu dzelats Budz as strong yang duzha and scho rabatats on it ? " - " Wazi - kazhits 
Jodo - unutsyk , firewood ."



Taking en etaga myadzvedzya zapreg and Iago in tsyalegu and PANES en vazits myadzvedzyu firewood , and three days 
downloading tsysta35 mustache , mustache syalenie abklav circle . Etim pritsetnikam no vyytsi nor vyihats ; truncated 
tsysta downloading ! And prihodzyats hildren pritsetniki to Etam svyaschelniku and gavoryuts " Jo hotste dzente lago en 
nya former dwellers ; scho Well ETA for akaziya scho in three days truncated syalo downloading nor vyytsi nor does 
vyihats nivazmozhna ." - "Oh, Assoc May - gavorits Jodo - scho we Budz dzelats ! Tabe pitiful son , and I Unuk ; Well 
Well went Iago , kudy Hosh ene - amplitude and go ! " Well, prizyvaits ene to sabe Unuk and gavorits :" Well, my Unuk 
lyubeznay , prihodzyats pritsetniki s prozbay ; pitied me and go away you tsibe , unutsyk where you uzdumav , all 
tsatyri storany . " - "Oh , my dzedushka lyubeznay ! You used a long time and told me evta , I Pashov would nikolki 
medlimshi nya . May Mother dear ! Spyaki karavashitsku me " 36. Mats Iago spyakla pit karavashitsku , settled in 
hatomatsku37 .



Get up en raneshinka , vmyvavsya byaleshinka . Uzyav en evtu hatomatsku , Hopes to Re Plets , blaslavivsya "Mother May 

kind and dzedushka my radzimay , blaslavitse on puts on daroga ." Pamalivsya en god and Pashova and exceeds en tsysta in 

field and no ene nastaviv38 putsem nor darogay , and lead en lyasam dryamutsym , mud taputsym and Ishov seven en den 
without Poldi , mouth and tongue apashku naatmashku ; exceeds ene in tridzevyatuyu land at tridzesyataya



charstva and vyhodzits ene in tsystaya field in steep mountains - and gulyaits Garynya - bagatyr kapkom39 kapaits and 
mountains . Prihodzits Hopes , popes Unuk to nyamu and gavorits "God pomats , Garynya - bagatyr ! Kuda in what tsibe 
nyazmetnaya force . How are you - gavorits - garam drips as shulugu ? " And ene gavorits pit :" Ah - gavorits - removed 
moladzits ! Neither you vdivlyaysya Maya silica . In tridzevyatay land at tridzesyatam charstvi - gavorits - as es Hopes 
, popes Unuk so at Tago nya evtakaya power! How to plant en myadzvedzya s forest , but on myadzvedzi truncated tsysto 
syalo downloading . Iago - gavorits - Voran caste nor zanosits , getting no zavozits Young horse ! " Ene gavorits A :" 
Oh, brother - Garynya bagatyr ! Neither bone zanosits Voran , and the Dobray moladzits zahodzits . " A gavorits en : "Oh 
, brother, you tyk evta Hopes , popes Unuk ! Vazmi , brother myane myanshie have brothers. " Yong Iago and uzyav and 
yana mnoga Hadza , and lots bagatyrev pabyadzili and many garad zahvatsili ; stalemate yana pazhanilis and Bhagat lived 
.

footnotes

Footnote on page 250

1 Grandson .

Closing in 2 liters instead pronounced roughly as would have , and the same should be noted about the pronunciation of 
the word Damov - home.

3 widows.

Affectionately took 4 , treated .

5 Very .

All 6 .

7 Ashes .

Footnote on page 251

Meets 8 .

9 Claw - enough.

Says 10 .

11 Open.

12 Time .

13 began to grow this baby .

Six 14 .

15 Small ball of stranded lyk .

16 Very .

17 losses harm.

18 Very , very .

19 troublesome .

20 Swamp or other place overgrown with scrub and woodland .

21 Good .

22 Zoom out.

23 Pile .

24 Available .

Footnote on page 252

Hemp 25 .

26 Hemp bridle ( bridle ) .

Took 27 , began , began .

Started 28 .

29 crumple .

30 Make spoilage , damage .

31 Do not lose heart .

32 recovered.

33 Nadel bridle - zanuzdal .

34 horrified.

35 Clean.

36 Kovriga bread.

37 knapsack .

Headed 38 .

Footnote on page 253

39 foot .
