In a certain kingdom , in a country , there lived a Prince Ivan and he had three sisters: one Princess Maria , Olga , 
another princess , the third Princess Anna . Father and mother they died , dying, they punished his son : " Who was the 
first for your sisters will be woo for that and to give - to yourself do not hold long! " Prince buried parents and 
grief went with her sisters in a green garden walk. Suddenly the sky is cloud black , gets a terrible storm . " Come on, 
sister , go home! " - Says Ivan Tsarevich . Only came to the palace - like a thunderclap , bisected the ceiling and flew 
them into the chamber bright falcon , hawk hit the floor , became a good man and says, " Hello, Ivan Tsarevich ! Before 
I went to the guest , and now came the matchmaker ; want you sister Princess Maria - woo . " - 'If you Telegram sister , 
I did not let up - even with God is coming! " Princess Maria agreed ; falcon married and took her to his kingdom .

Days go by , watch the clock run - a year is gone , Prince Ivan went with his two sisters in the green garden walk. 
Cloud rising again in the whirlwind and lightning . " Come on, sister , go home! " - Said the prince . Only came to the 
palace - like a clap of thunder , broke up the roof , the ceiling split in two , and the eagle flew , hit the floor and 
there was a good fellow , "Hello , Ivan Tsarevich ! Before I went to the guest , and now came the matchmaker . " And woo 
- princess Olga . Replied Ivan Tsarevich , "If you Telegram - Princess Olga , then let go for you , I will not shoot it 
." Princess Olga , agreed and went for eagle married ; eagle caught it and carried it into his kingdom .

Another year has passed , says Ivan Tsarevich her ​​younger sister : " Come on, take a walk in the green garden ! " 
Walked a little ; cloud rising again in the whirlwind and lightning . " Let us , my sister, go home! " Returned home , 
did not have time to sit down - like a clap of thunder , forked ceiling and flew a raven crow hit the floor and there 
was a good man : a former were good , but this is even better. "Well, Prince Ivan , before I went to the guest , and now 
came the matchmaker ; give me Anna , princess ." - "I

301

sister will not rented ; if you are fond of it , let him follow you. " Married Anna crow princess , and he took her in his state .

Prince Ivan was left alone; lived for a year without sisters , and became bored . " I'll go - he says - look sisters ." 
Going on the road , walking , walking and sees - lies in the strength of the army - chipped . Asks Ivan Tsarevich , "If 
there are people alive here - respond ! Who broke this great army ? " Revoke his man alive : " All of this great army 
beat Maria Morevna , beautiful princess . " Let Prince Ivan on, people came to the white tents , went out to meet him, 
Maria Morevna , lovely princess , "Hello , Prince , where God brought you - at the behest of Al in bondage ? " She 
answered Prince Ivan : "Good fellows are not in bondage go "-" Well, if it's not in a hurry , to stay with me in the 
tents . " Ivan Tsarevich and glad that two nights in tents, slept , fell in love with Mary Morevna and married her .

Maria Morevna , lovely princess , took it with me in its own state they lived together Some time , and the war occurred 
to meet the princess , she leaves Prince Ivan and the entire economy of the order: " Everywhere go, keep an eye for all 
, only in this closet do not can look ! " He could not stand it as soon as Maria Morevna left , immediately rushed to 
the closet , opened the door and looked - and there hanging Bag of Bones , on twelve chains chained . Requests Koschey 
Ivan Tsarevich : " Have mercy on me , give me a drink ! For ten years I am suffering here , not eating and drinking - 
absolutely parched throat ! " Prince gave him a bucket of water he drank and even asked : " I do not pour a bucket 
thirst forbid else! " Prince filed another bucket ; Koschey drank and asked for the third , and he drank the third 
bucket - took its former strength , and immediately shook his chains broke all twelve . "Thank you, Ivan Tsarevich ! - 
Bag of Bones said . - Now you will never see Mary Morevna as their ears ! "- And a terrible whirlwind flew out the 
window, caught on the road Marya Morevna , beautiful princess , picked her up and carried off to myself. A Prince Ivan 
wept bitterly , shells and went on their way , " Whatever will be, and Marya Morevna 'll track ! "



Comes the day comes another dawn of the third sees a wonderful palace, the palace stands of oak , oak tree on a bright 
falcon sits . Falcon flew with oak , struck the ground , turned good fellow and cried: " Oh, my dear brother-in-law ! As
the Lord has mercy on you ? " Ran out Princess Maria , vstrela Ivan Tsarevich joyfully began to ask about his health , 
about his life and times to talk . Stay with them for three days and the prince says: " Can not you stay a long time , 
and I 'm going to look for my wife , Marya Morevna , beautiful princess ." - "It is difficult you find it - meets falcon
. - Leave here just in case your silver spoon : we look at it , remember about you . " Prince Ivan left his falcon 
silver spoon and went on the road.

Day he walked , walked another dawn of the third sees the palace still better than the first , near the palace of oak 
stands on the oak eagle perched . Eagle flew down from the tree, struck the ground , turned good fellow and shouted, " 
Get up, Olga Tsarevna ! Our dear brother is . " Olga Tsarevna immediately

302

ran forward, became his kiss - hug , ask about health , about his life and times to talk . Ivan Tsarevich after staying 
a day or three at them and says: " I ​​have no time to visit the longest , and I 'm going to look for my wife , Marya 
Morevna , beautiful princess ." Eagle responds : "It is difficult you find it , leave us a silver fork : we look at it , 
you remember ." He left a silver fork and went on the road.

Day it was , the other was , at the dawn of the third palace sees better first two oak stands near the palace , on the 
oak raven sits . Crows flew with oak , struck the ground , and turned good fellow shouted, " Anna - princess ! Quickly 
come out, our brother is . " Anna ran princess vstrela his joy , began to kiss , hug , asking about health , about his 
life and times to talk . Ivan Tsarevich after staying a day or three at them and says, " Good-bye ! Go look for his wife 
- Maria Morevna , beautiful princess . " Responsible crows : "It is difficult you find it , leave-ka silver snuffbox 
with us : we look at it , you remember ." Prince gave him a silver snuff-box , said goodbye and went on the road.

Day it was , the other was , and the third got to Marya Morevna . She saw her lover , threw herself on his neck , burst 
into tears , and she said: "Ah, Prince Ivan ! Why did you not listen to me - looked in the closet and let Koshchey 
Immortal ? "-" I'm sorry, Mary Morevna ! Remember not the old , better come with me , will not see until Koshchey 
Immortal ; maybe not catch up ! " Pack up and leave . A Koschey was out hunting , he had come home in the evening 
tossing and turning underneath good horse stumbles. "What are you , nesytaya nag stumble ? Do you hear what Ali 
adversity ? " Responsible horse " Prince Ivan came , took Marya Morevna . " - " Is it possible to catch them ? " - " You 
can sow wheat , to wait until she grows up , compress it , thresh , to draw in flour , bread ovens five ready, that 
bread to eat , but then go in pursuit - and that Pospeev ! " Koschey galloped off , caught prince Ivan , "Well, - he 
says - the first time forgive you for your kindness that I watered with water , and at other times I will forgive , but 
beware of the third - hacked to pieces ! " robbed him and took Marya Morevna , and Ivan Tsarevich sat on a rock and wept
.

Wept , wept and returned back again for Marya Morevna ; Koshchey Immortal house will not happen. " Come , Maria Morevna 
" - " Ah, Prince Ivan ! He will catch up with us . " - " Let them catch up , even though we spend an hour or two 
together." Packed up and left . Bag of Bones returned home , underneath a good horse stumbles. "What are you , nesytaya 
nag stumble ? Do you hear what Ali adversity ? "-" Prince Ivan came Marya Morevna took with him . " - " Is it possible 
to catch them ? " - " You can sow barley , to wait until he grows up, squeeze - thresh , weld beer , drunk get drunk to 
satiety sleep yes then go in pursuit - and that Pospeev ! " Koschey jumped , caught Ivan prince : " After all I'll say 
you can not see Marya Morevna as their ears ! " take it away and took to himself.

Prince Ivan remained one wept , wept and returned again for Marya Morevna ; Koshchey at the time the house is not going 
to happen. " Let's go ,

Maria Morevna "-" Ah, Prince Ivan ! After all, he will catch up , you hacked to pieces . " - "Let hacked ! Without you I 
can not live . " Gathered and drove off. Bag of Bones returned home , underneath a good horse stumbles. "What do you 
stumble ? Do you hear what Ali adversity ? "-" Prince Ivan came Marya Morevna took with him . " Koschey jumped , caught 
Prince Ivan , chopped it into small pieces and poklal in tarred barrel ; took this barrel , sealed with iron hoops and 
tossed into the blue sea , and Marya Morevna took to himself .

At the same time in -law Ivan Tsarevich blackened silver . "Oh, - they say - you can see , the trouble happened ! " 
Eagle rushed to the blue sea , grabbed the barrel and pulled ashore , the falcon flew over living waters, and a raven 
for the dead . Flocked all three in one place , smashed the barrel removed pieces of Ivan Tsarevich , changes and sklali 
as wanted. Raven squirted dead water - body grow together , Sedin , live falcon squirted water - Prince Ivan shuddered , 
stood up and said: " Oh, how I long for sleep " - " Still asleep longer , if not for us! - Meet -in-law . - Let's go now 
to visit us . " - "No , my friends ! I 'll go look for Marya Morevna . "

Comes to her and asks , " to find out from Koshchey Immortal where he got himself such a good horse." Here Maria Morevna 
Seizing a good minute and became Koshchey inquire . Scrag said : "For distant lands , tridesyatom kingdom, for the fiery 
river lives Baba Yaga , she had a such a mare on which it every day around the world flies . A lot from her and other 
famous mares I had it for three days was a shepherd , not a single mare failed , and for the Baba Yaga gave me one 
zherebenochka . " - " How did you get through the fire crossed the river ? " - " And I have a handkerchief - as Makhno 
in the right side three times , make a high - high bridge , and the fire will not reach it ! " Maria Morevna listened , 
recounted all Ivan Tsarevich handkerchief and blew so he gave .


Prince Ivan crossed the river of fire , and went to Baba Yaga . Long he was neither bite nor sup . He came across to 
meet overseas bird with small babies. Prince Ivan says: " I ​​shall eat one - ka I a chicken ." - "Do not eat , Ivan 
Tsarevich ! - Requests overseas bird. - In a while I be of use to you. " He went on; sees a hive of bees in the forest . 
"Take I -ka - he says - any Medco ." Queen Bee responds : "Do not touch my honey, Prince Ivan ! At some time I'll be of 
use to . " He has not touched and moved on ; adjudged to meet him a lioness with cub . " I though I shall eat this lion 
cub , there is so eager azhno sick from it " - " Do not touch me , Prince Ivan - Requests lioness . - At some time I'll 
be of use to . " - "Well, let it be on your way ! "

Wandered hungry, go - go - a house hags, round houses twelve poles , on eleven poles at head of a man , only one 
unoccupied . "Hello , Grandma! " - " Hello, Ivan Tsarevich ! Postal come - at the good will of necessity Al ? "- " I 
came to deserve you heroic horse. " - " Very well , the prince ! I do not serve a year , and only about three days , if 
upasesh my mare - give you heroic

horse, and if not, do not be angry - stick your head in the last pole . " Prince Ivan agreed , Baba Yaga fed him and 
watered - ordered for the cause taken . Just threw it in the mares , mare wagged his tail and all the meadows scattered 
apart , did not manage to raise his eyes Prince as they all disappeared . Then he wept - zapechalilsya , sat on a rock 
and fell asleep. The sun is at sunset, bird flew overseas and wakes him : " Get up, Prince Ivan ! Filly at home now . " 
Prince stood up, went home , and the Baba Yaga and the noise and shouts at her mares , "Why are you home gate? " - " How 
can we have not come back ? Birds came from around the world , we just pecked eye . " - "Well, tomorrow you do not run 
across the meadows and dense forests to scatter ."


Slept the night Prince Ivan ; morning Baba Yaga says to him , "Look , Prince , if not upasesh mares , if you lose even 
one - to be your wild little head on a pole ! " He chased the mares in the field, they immediately wagged his tail and 
fled to primeval Forests. Prince sat down again on the stone , wept , and wept , and fell asleep. The sun set behind the 
forest, ran lioness : "Arise , Prince Ivan ! Mares are all collected . " Prince Ivan arose and went home, Baba Yaga than 
ever and noise and screams at her mares , "Why home gate? " - " How can we have not come back ? Savage beasts came 
running from around the world , we just do not torn . " - "Well, tomorrow you run in into the blue sea ."


Again slept the night Prince Ivan , the next morning it sends Baba Yaga mares graze , " If you do not upasesh - be your 
lush little head on a pole ." He drove the mares in the field, they immediately pulled up tails , disappeared from his 
eyes and ran into the blue sea , standing in water up to his neck . Ivan Tsarevich sat on a rock and cried and fell 
asleep. Sun behind the forest village , arrived bee and says, " Get up , Prince ! Mares are all collected , yes as a 
gateway home Baba Yaga eyes do not show , go to the stable and hide behind the creche . There's a lousy foal - lying in 
the manure , you steal it in the dead of night and go out of the house . "

Prince Ivan got up, made ​​his way to the stable and lay in the manger , Baba Yaga and the noise and shouts at her mares 
, "Why the gate? " - " How can we have not come back ? Flown by thousands of bees from around the world and give us from 
all sides to sting blood ! "

Baba Yaga was asleep , and very midnight Prince Ivan stole her lousy colt saddled him , sat down and jumped to the fiery 
river. I reached that river , waved the handkerchief three times on the right side - and suddenly , out of nowhere came 
from, hung high over the river , a nice bridge. Prince moved over the bridge and waved his handkerchief on the left side 
only twice - stayed bridge across the river a thin - thin ! Awoke in the morning Baba Yaga - lousy view foal can not see 
! Gave chase , at full speed on the iron mortar jumps , chases pestle , broom sweeps track . Galloped to the fiery river
, looked and thought: "Well the bridge! " Went over the bridge , only got to the middle - the bridge broke off and Baba 
Yaga Chuburu into the river and then her death happened fierce ! Prince Ivan fattened foal in green meadows ; became of 
his wonderful horse .


Prince comes to Marya Morevna ; she ran , threw herself on his neck : "What is your god raised ? " - " So and so - says 
. - Come with me . " - "I am afraid , Ivan Tsarevich ! If Koschey catch up , you be hacked again . " - " No, I will not 
catch up ! Now I have a nice giant horse flies like a bird . " They sat on the horse and rode . Bag of Bones home 
tossing and turning beneath the horse stumbles. "What are you , nesytaya nag stumble ? Do you hear what Ali adversity ? 
"-" Prince Ivan came , took Marya Morevna . " - " Is it possible to catch them ? " - " God knows ! Now Ivan Tsarevich 
heroic horse better than me . " - "No, not uterplyu - Bag of Bones says - go to the chase ." Long or short it - he 
caught Ivan Tsarevich , jumped to the ground and was about to whip his sharp saber , in those days horse Prince Ivan 
struck with all his hoof Koshchey Immortal and smashed his head, and the prince had exhausted his club. After naklal 
Prince pile of firewood, built a fire, burned at the stake Koshchey Immortal and most of his ashes let the wind.

Maria Morevna sat on Koshcheeva horse and Prince Ivan on their own, and they went on a visit to the first crow, then to 
the eagle , and there and a falcon . Wherever you come , everywhere greeted them with joy : " Ah, Prince Ivan , and so 
we do not see you chayali . Well, not for nothing that you fussed : beauties such as Maria Morevna , all over the world 
to look - not to find another ! "To stay , they feast and went to his kingdom and began to come live with him happily 
ever after , goodness yes acquire nectar to drink.
