Was his own man and had three sons : two smart , and the third a fool. Besides host upadilosya2 something in wheat and that day - morgu3 zedalo . Host that sent the first night vartavats4 eldest son , he 's orders, sat sat and slept under the same day and early as rose, corn was found netseluyu . On the second night seredni commandment , and he, too, fell asleep in the morning - and something ate wheat. On the third night commandment fool, he once came , so in the evening and went to bed and got up in the morning and sitting - much as a bird flies . He crept up and caught that bird and drove in a bag , and he went to bed.

The next day early in the elder brother come watch wheat - up whole wheat , but a fool asleep. They woke fool and began to ask, "Why now whole wheat ? " He told his brothers everything as it was , and showed the bird which sat in fur . They have taken away from that fool bird and parents suffer on display. Came to his father , they said that fool sleeps and they caught bird that was sitting on wheat and ate . Father , seeing that bird , carried it to the king. Krul took Nightingale paid for Yayo peasant and spoke close to sklepu5 , and gave the key to his wife.

She sat bird sitting in the basement , up ran to the door Small Kraljevic . Duck is the bird close ask Kraljevic chalavechaskim voice that he Yayo released . " How can I release when the key to the vault in my uterus on your neck? " - Said Kraljevic . "Take padlaschysya6 to the uterus , adkradi

175

key and let me go , "- said Bird . That Kraljevic so did come to his mother conceived pestsitstsa7 , open the key and let that bird , and that bird - it was masenzhny old man, and he stepped out of the crypt , Kraljevic said : "How will what you need, then just go out on yard and say masenzhny Grandfather , help me ! - That I'm prystavlyusya and what will only need , all I will do . "

On the second day Krul pasprashav guests to seeing such amazing birds . Pazezhzhalisya guests to watch the birds and after dinner they went to the tomb ; come there , unlocked the cellar , up birdies , no! King is now his wife , as Yayo had the keys . Wife insisted prysyagalasya that not vypuschala birdie , but she did not believe and sentenced Yayo stratsits8 . She cried , cried , and then remembers that colo Yayo dabbled son and he pevno9 open keys , she told her husband, and all the guests. Guests said by some to hang son , others said - to drown , and one of the guests say to make him pork sheepskin and bring to light. All this zgadilisya10 . Uterus very cried, and after seeing that crying will not help saying to bring that swine sheepskin and panashivala his pennies prynaymney thousands one piece of paper and gold, and expelled him.

He took kiek11 yes commandment . He goes , crying that he gave way to the sun ? Up comes to his idea masenzhny old man , he vzashey the mountain and said, " Grandpa Masenzhny ! Help me . " Duck now that the old man came to him and asked what he wanted ? He told it like it was , and asked him to help. Old man thought , said: " You go in to the king moro12 and asked him to accept you for kuhtsika13 , as he'll take , but now there is a war , and you ask for in a chef to you pazvoliv paytsi14 view of the war , and how he pazvolits you , then go out the gate and call me . "

He listened to my grandfather and Kraljevic commandment cometh it for Moro - worth up palats15 and the yard resemble Krul . Kraljevic in pig coat came to the king and begged to take it to him for the Kitchen . King agreed and said to go to the kitchen. He served in the King years , second , third as much as the bastard make war . Krul gathered an army , and drove himself vabravsya to war. Kitchen learned that the king had left begot ask the chef to see him pazvoliv war, did not want to cook pazvolits but Kraljevic chef gave five rubles , and he pazvoliv him . Kraljevic went beyond the call bramu16 and begot masenzhnogo grandfather .

The old man now prystavivsya gave him a horse , in vabrav ahvitserskae dress , gave the sword , gave a silver apple and said, " You're in this war sword smite all enemy troops ; Krul will ask you to his palace , but you do not go and getoe apples are coming back to the palace , you'll swing , and will have to ask you this kralevna bullseye , you tagda give her when she pazvolits you spend in kralevny room at the threshold . " Kraljevic

176

did so, went to war, struck all the army , and the king asked that he came to the palace, but he refused .

After arriving home , in your pereadevsya swine coat , came to the kitchen , where , after washing nachyne17 , begot download Silver Apples - up kralevna out and saw something like apples , and conceived to ask him , so he sold it. "I do not want anything , only - to kralevna pazvolila svaem in the room at the doorstep of the night ." - "Good" - said kralevna and took the bullseye. As night fell , the commandment to Kraljevic kralevny rooms, spent the night at the doorstep and returned to the kitchen.

Tserez two years back was the war , and the king also collected an army and went . Kitchen earnestly asked the chef to war vzashey the gate, shouted at my grandfather , and he is now prystavivsya ; gave Kraljevic horse vabrav in ahvitserskae dress , gave a golden apple and told him to give kralevne , was then, when she spend the night at his pazvolits lozhka18 . Kraljevic also broke the enemy troops ; Krul asked him to the palace, but he refused and returned home. After washing Nachyn , begot swing and have fun with their apple - even re-entered kralevna conceived and request that he sold the bullseye. He replied that zhadnay19 board does not want just wants - to spend the night with him pazvolila svaem bed. Kralevna pazvolila and took the bullseye. Kraljevic going , kralevny commandment in the room, spent the night near kralevny bed and the next day the command of the kitchen and began to work.

Tserez three years has again become a war. Krul gathered his army and went to war himself . Kraljevic , vyprasivshysya in chef 's command view nibyto20 war. Coming out of the gate , called masenzhnogo grandfather, he now prystavivsya , gave him another lepshago horse and apples such as the sun, and said, " You again smite all the enemy forces , you're wounded in the arm, Krul will ask to yourself, but you ezzhaj not , and hast getoe apple kralevne tagda when she pazvolits you spend on svaem bed. " Kraljevic , sitting on his horse, flew into battle having arrived there , now conceived hack enemy forces perarubav All but one Chablis Kraljevic hit on the arm and wounded him . King saw that he was wounded , jumped now withdrew his neck hustku21 , abvertsev wound and let your ring on the memo , requested that he drove him to the palace to relax but Kraljevic not want to hit the horse and disappeared behind the mountain. Krul was very glad that three wars ended happily and took a lot of other edges.

Kraljevic his horse , dressed in his sheepskin coat pork and came to the kitchen. There razpytyvalisya him that he saw ? And he talked about Usem as a pan beat the enemy troops as Krul gave his handkerchief and his ring in memory and as requested to him , but he did not want to pan . After washing your custom Nachyn and pots, became themselves entertained with an apple that asvetsilo whole kitchen . As he amused with apple kralevna entered the kitchen and saw a bullseye , conceived very request that he sold it , and it will only give him as much money as he wants. Kraljevic in pig coat said he does not want money , just wants - to kralevna pazvolila

177

svaem sleep on the bed. Kralevna agreed and said to send his bed Kitchen . As night fell, the commandment to Kitchen kralevny rooms , understood and lay down on the bed Yayo .

Gadiny22 twelfth round tomorrow at noon prachhnuvsya23 , Kraljevic and told to ask for a king . Krul , zdivivshysya , vabravsya in uniform, got into his carriage and went . Arriving at the palace , now saw an unfamiliar custody , but she missed it all , and to the king dashov Kraljevic room. Once opened the door , ran Kraljevic spatykats24 , greeted the king and asked to sit . King now found one that was three times during the war and all three times struck the enemy troops ; Kraljevic also learned to hand out his handkerchief and ring finger . Krul begot bow Kraljevic that helped him in the war, and led to his daughter . A kralevna long loved him because he was very good, and now supports him zaruchylasya25 . At the betrothal Kraljevic told how he was kicked out of the house , as they apekavavsya26 masenzhny old man as he came for the Moros , as the old man gave him the apple.

Engaged in three Sundays was very vyaselle27 guchnoe28 and the wedding went on to roditsav Kraljevic . Batski29 they do not know , as had his son for prapavshago : were very pleased that znash son , and especially mother who conceived razpytyvatstsa : what way he went so far ? Kraljevic now about masenzhnom Grandpa, as he started already for the Moros , as he served for the Kitchen , as was the war ; razkazav about apples , and after - as Krull and opened as enlisted and married with kralevnayu . They lived a happy long after his father and kralevny Kraljevic were dead and their pazapisyvali kralevstva them . And the old man was masenzhny them until death and helped them a lot in Usem , especially in war. Often they do points on which I was , honey - wine drinking ; beard flowed , and the mouth is not horrible .
footnotes

Footnote on page 174

1 Dziadok ( old man ) - on Belarusian believed to have a storeroom keeper and appears with fiery eyes and fiery Boroday . Epithet : masenzhny (Polish mosięzny - yellow- Copper ) probably indicates that grandfather copper storage pantry.

2 got into the habit .

3 Mortuary - a measure of land , less than tithing.

4 sentries guard .

5 cellar prison.

6 flatter .

Footnote on page 175

7 caress ; (piescić - undead , pamper, nurture ) .

8 Execute .

Probably 9 (eds.) .

10 agreed.

11 Regiment .

12 Sea .

13 Povarenkov .

14 Go.

15 Palace .

Gate 16 .

Footnote on page 176

17 dishes.

18 bed lodge .

No 19 .

20 As if (eds.) .

21 handkerchief .

Footnote on page 177

22 hours.

Woke 23 .

24 meet.

25 hoops.

26 take care of him .

27 Wedding.

Curvy 28 .

29 Parents .
