Sabe alive king queen yes . They had three sons, two reasonable , and the third a fool . The king of the former 
menagerie , whose set was different animals . In etat menagerie unadivsya vyaliky beast - Mink called Iago - and Bhagat 
rabiv shkody1 : Kazhdan night eats animals. King chago rabiv not - could not destroy Iago ; during uposli szyvaya svaih 
sons and the Kazha " Htoo destroy Mink - beast to give Palavin kingdom." In senior and pamavsya2 : yak only nightfall 
ene taking aruzhie and Pashov neither let pashodshi in menagerie zayshov at the inn and there pragulyav intact night. 
Shamyanuvsya3 yak rassvyalo , but too late . Pit was ashamed before atstsom yes nechaga rabit . On the next day , and 
the middle brother also zrabiv ; dad layav - layav them , and stopped .

During the third day sobravsya smaller . S laughing all Iago , more buv bad , and Yana thought INTO ene nothing Zroby , 
and ene uzyavshi aruzhiya , Pashov right at the zoo and the planting of turf shtob - yak just start -


202

sleep - yana his kalnuli , ene would prosnuvsya . Already zvyarnulo with pavnochi . In zastagnala zyamlya : Mink is a 
beast byazhit and right through to agradu menagerie , more takyj vyaliky scourged . Skhamyanuvsya prince , tired , and 
perekrestivsya Pashov directly to the beast ; ene ago , Prince behind him, and distant bacha4 INTO Dagon not walk in 
pabeg kanyushnyu , uzyav samaga luchshaga stallion , yes Pagon : dagnav Tago beast , and began bitstsa .

Jana fought , fought . Prince giving the beast three wounds. In uboe5 had escaped from the urine and the lyagli addyhat 
. Yak only prince asleep beast charter th nauteki6 yes . Horse waking prince ; ene skhapivsya7 , yes Pagon ; dagnavshi , 
iznova bitstsa conceived . Tsarevich and then zrabiv beast three wounds, and distant lyagli addyhat . Beast leaked ; 
Tsarevich dagnavshi , znova zrabiv three wounds, and dale , yak fourth time in becoming daganyat beast of Great dabeg 
yes Belaga stone padnyav Iago and Pashov on the light , saying to Prince : "Then myane pabedish yak come here ."

Paehav prince and confessed everything and atstsu svaymu Prasit Iago shtob en vyalev ZVIT leather rope takyj Dovga shtob 
taking out yes Tago light. Atets vyalev . Yak zrabili rope prince , pick svaih brother, scored servants and vsyago INTO 
treba was the whole year , paehav where beast Pashov pad stone. Arriving , yana pastroili dvarets there and began to 
live . Prigatovilis ; youngest brother and senior Kazha : " Well , boys, hto padymya this rock ? " Neither Adin and 
breakfast place without moving , and en grabbing yak , duck stone firing away , and the CCB - vyaliky vyaliky - s 
mountain. Rushing stone en iznova and Kazha brother : " A hto Paid for children light pabivat Mink - beast ? " Not 
without taking Adin ; ene, mocked them , INTO yana cowards Gawor : " Well , boys, proschaytya ; apuskaytya myane on the 
light, and not sama adhodtya hell syago place and yak Tolka zakalyshitstsa rope - drags . " Run the Iago been withdrawn 
.

Achnuvshis in that light , the earth pad , Prince Pashov ; Ishov Ishov yes ; divitstsa8 , already walking horse Bhagat 
slings and Kazha pit , "Oh, hello , Ivan Tsarevich ; debt tabe I wait ! " Yong sat on the horse and Tago paehav ; yedya 
yes yedya looking , already stait dvarets copper . Yong vzehav the courtyard, and the canoe tied Pashov in the room. 
There nagatovana abedat ; ene sowing, paabedav , and Pashov in the bedroom , there are pastel, and lay down en addyhat .

In coming pana , yes so beautiful, nor INTO zdumat nor zgadat , only kaztse9 say yes and Kazha " Tho in my house - Azavi 
: potassium old - will be the father , a middle-aged potassium - brother and potassium Young - accommodating husband , 
and potassium woman so old - will be a grandmother, a middle-aged - mother and potassium Maladaya - dear sister . " Yong 
vyshov . Ian , yak pabachila Iago , and yes vzradavalas Kazha " Chago , Prince Ivan ( my husband you'll kind ) chago 
come here? " Yong confessed to her INTO and yak . Jan and Kazha : " That beast INTO up You want pabedit - my brother . 
Yong tyaper in Middle syastry INTO Long live near adsyuda dvartse in silver , and I pit zalyachila three wounds INTO 
zrabiv you . "



In uposli10 syago yana drank , walked , kind thoughts mali11 , and distant prince , papraschavshis , yes paehav other 
syastry INTO dvartse in silver , and in so far as pagast . Ian said pit brother INTO Re Mink tyaper have menshay syastry 
. Yong paehav yes menshay INTO lived in Salat dvartse . ETA said pit INTO Re tyaper brother sleeps on the blue sea and 
the distant pit gave napitstsa silnay vada gave magic sword and said Ruban en shtob chapter adrazu brother . Yong 
vysluhavshi ETA , paehav . Coming to Prince sinyamu sea divitstsa - already sleeps Mink unturned paseryadine sea and yak 
snoring - yes Tago seven miles already Valnet be . Yong peryakryastivsya , pad'ehav to pit , striking sword na Galavit . 
Galava adskachila yes and Kazha : " Well I prapav tyaper Ms " - a distant and pavalivsya at sea.



By killing the beast , Prince vyarnuvsya , pabrav all three syaster with saboyu shtob bring them to light etat ; bo Iago 
all liked and Hateley s rastatstsa them . Kazhny of them from svaygo dvartsa zrabila egg ( bo were valshebnitsy ) Iago 
taught yak Testicular zrabit dvarets and naabarot , Adda pit testicles and Pashley to Tamu place where treba padymatstsa 
was this light. Yak Yana came to the rope , the prince , Pasadena girls derganuv the rope ; ene zakalyhavsya , brother 
pataschili . Yak dragged yes pabachili12 strange beauties atashli hell yes and seem them : "Let the rope padymem brother 
peryarezhim rope , let them ubetstsa , and then not give us en beauties still married ." Waugh sgavarivshis , let the 
rope : former brother did not miss, dagadavsya INTO dumayut brothers , and yes uzyav palazhiv stone derganuv ; brothers 
padnyali it high and the peryarezali rope . That stone falling and breaking . Ene and the weeping Pashov .


Ishov , Ishov prince . In yak padnyalas storm zabliskala Malanya , zagremit thunder , pouring rain . Yong sewn to 
deryavu shtob zahavatstsa13 pad them; looking , already on the small deryave ptushki14 savsem izmokli ; iznyav with sabe 
en Adeje yes and covering them , and the trees sitting pad . Cali lyatit bird, yes such vyalikaya INTO zatmivsya and 
light : it was dark, and then yasche patyamnelo . That - the uterus tyh ptushak INTO covering Prince .


Prilyatevshi , melting bird yak pabachila INTO Re Slide the dyateshaty and Kazha " Htoo nakutav maih ptushak ? " - A 
distant , pabachivshi prince and Kazha " Eta zrabiv you ? Thank tabe . Chago you want, Prasit hell myane for ETA , all 
make for tabe ! " Yong Kazha " Vynyasi myane children on the light. " Ian Gawor : " Well you Zrabi vyaliky zasek15 , 
nalavi vsyakay game yes distribute there , and in another Palavin naly vada shtob was denote myane Carmen ." Prince all 
zrabiv . Taya bird - vzyatshi etat spotted on Saba , and the prince sat in seryadine - palyatela .

Bahgat Lyatevshi chi , chi small - vynyasla Iago , and papraschalas palyatela ; Pashov and ene and the bailiff to adnamu 
partners in boys : he takyj former abodranny so peremyanivsya INTO nevdamet16 and INTO the king's son . Having become in 
Tago hazyaina for an employee , the prince began rasprashuvat INTO

204

in their kingdom, and yak ? That hazyain and Kazha : " Our two prince (more third prapav ) privyazli with Tago light 
brides and hochut zhanitstso yes Tyya bride upiruyut17 : hochut shtob them to vyantsu vsyakago sew dresses takogogo yak 
they had in the other world , and without measurements . King zvav vsih mastyarov , but not Adin byaretstsa not . " 
Vysluhavshi all ETA , the prince and Kazha : "Go, hazyain to the king and tell you INTO nashiesh all tvaymu remyaslu pas 
." Hazyain and Kazha " Chi myane Well bratstsa dresses for tacos ? I Shiyu on the common . " Kazha prince : "Go, hazyain 
! I am responsible for everything. " That hazyain Pashov . Former king glad INTO nashovsya though Adin mastyar ; pit 
giving money as ene hatev . Hazyain the one on the right, coming damov18 . Tsarevich and Gawor pit : " Well, God yes 
lazhis malis sleep , waking Gatov tomorrow ." Yong pasluhav svaygo parabka went to bed .

Zvyarnulo with pavnochi . Prince arose, Pashov for Gorod - on the field , out of pocket vynyav Tyya testicles INTO pit 
gave the bride and yak taught Iago , to create one of their three dvartsy ; vashov , pabrav in each of their dresses, 
exceeds , zvyarnuv tye dvartsy in testicles and Pashov Damov . Prishovshi , dresses hung on Pull yes and went to bed . 
Early prasnuvsya hazyain , lo and behold - already visit tacos dresses INTO ene and kind! All syae19 with gold , but 
silver, semi-precious stones yes . Yong zradovavs taking PANES toy dress to the king . Princess, yak ubachili INTO that 
dress INTO have them on the light dagadalis INTO Ivan Tsarevich in this world , looked at each other and the zamovkli . 
Hazyain one Adda dresses Pashov Damov , but not finding already svaygo daragoga employee. Yong Pashov yes bailiff to 
bashmashniku ​​, and Tago paslav to the king , and that zarabiv ; abhadiv only ene vsih mastyarov and truncated 
Blagadaryu Iago , Iago INTO profited through the king .

Yak abhadiv Prince worker vsih mastyarov , princess paluchili pile desire; at their dresses all had tacos, yak on the 
light , only Yana mourned INTO Prince not coming , and naravit20 , it was impossible, was vyanchatstsa nada . Yak Sabran 
to vyantsu , less bride and Kazha king: " Pazvolte me , sir, Paita most Padar beggars ! " Yong pazvoliv . Jan Pashley 
and started giving priglyadatstsa yes . Padhodya to adnamu ; yak began to give money pit , pabachila ring INTO gave to 
Prince in the other world , and rings syaster svaih (more then former ene ! ) - Stop Iago 's hand and wilted Iago into 
the room and Kazha king: " In one INTO us vyvyaz of Tago light ! Brothers , Kazha , zapryatili Ghawar us INTO en alive 
and abeschali pabit21 us, we say potassium . " King on tyh sons rassyardivsya chastise them yak znav himself , and after 
walking three weddings , and I'm there having been , honey - wine beers , in the company was not only pas tyaklo Barad .

footnotes

Footnote on page 201

1 losses harm.

Took 2 (in imalsya ) .

3 woke up , came to his senses .

Footnote on page 202

Sees 4 .

5 Both ( Ed.).

6 Yes and run.

7 caught himself .

8 Views .

Tale 9 .

Footnote on page 203

After 10 .

There were 11 , ie Imali ( take) .

Saw 12 .

13 hide .

Birdie 14 .

15 Soucek , Hutch for ssypki grain ( Ed.).

16 is not known to .

Footnote on page 204

17 rests .

18 Home.

19 Shining .

20 NOROV ( donor ) - resist .

21 Kill ( Ed.).
